Add support for the Ingres RDBMS
Hi Folks     I ve put together all the stuff I can figure out that is required to add support for using the Ingres RBMS. I ll upload a svn diff for what I ve done. It is against the 1.5.2 version from the tags repository.     I was looking around but couldn t see if there was a way of running a test suite using Ingres as the DBMS provider. Is that possible with the current environment CheersA svn diff against the tags 1.5.2 source tree to add support for the Ingres RDBMS. It should be noted that only version 9.2 or newer of Ingres will work properly.Hi running a test suite using Ingres You could run the jackrabbit-core tests. First you need Maven 2 and svn You would need to download the source code svn co http svn.apache.org repos asf jackrabbit trunk Then you should make sure the default configuration works on your machine mvn clean install Then change the configuration files jackrabbit-core src test repository repository.xml and jackrabbit-core src test repository workspaces workspace.xml the most important workspaces are default and test then re-run the test suite again mvn clean install . Regards Thomas Hi Folks     Having trouble with getting the tests to work. Problems around load store of bundles.     Apache-jackrabbit currently does not work with Ingres with this patch. Help is always appreciated though...     I m uploading a new svn diff which is against the tags 1.5.2 source it has some small corrections in it around the sql. The work that needs to be done now is in java. As I get time I will continue to work on getting apache-jackrabbit going with Ingres. Ingres 9.2 enterprise edition for linux 32bit was released just the other day and can be downloaded from the Ingres website for free. It is this version of Ingres that I am working with. Take care     MurrayUpdated version of changes for using Ingres 9.2 or newer with apache-jackrabbit. Supercedes previous diff s uploadedThanks Patch applied without the IngresPersistenceManager class normal configuration is enough for this in revision 792167 and merged to the 1.x branch in revision 792169.
