System properties does not get replaced in a Cluster configuration
Since JCR-1304 has been added to jackrabbit 1.4 I guess this should be reported as a bug... Still not debugged deeply but if I try to configure a Cluster using Cluster id server syncDelay 10 after setting a server system property I expect to have the cluster initialized properly using the value of such property... I just realized that my cluster node gets initialized with the final value of server instead Cluster config is a very good place where to use system properties since all the configuration is usually identical between cluster nodes while the id property must be different... Is there anything I missed did wrong in my configuration failing testcasetestcase fix for parsing system properties in cluster id and syncDelay properties if the patch looks good it would be great to have it merged to the 1.4 branch for the upcoming 1.4.6 release thanks For clustering you can set the system property org.apache.jackrabbit.core.cluster.node id instead of setting the id attribute in the Cluster config element. See http wiki.apache.org jackrabbit Clustering. We could have multiple ways of setting the id dynamically but I would prefer to have only one way of doing this in this case. WDYT I wasn t aware of the org.apache.jackrabbit.core.cluster.node id magic property but since you can use system variables everywhere in the config file with a standard mechanism except here at the moment IMHO it would be better to handle it consistently. Since it s more generic I think the way system properties are replaced using variables is easier and more self-explanatory. This could also fully replace the org.apache.jackrabbit.core.cluster.node id property by just setting the default to org.apache.jackrabbit.core.cluster.node id . My vote to add the generic replacement of variables in the cluster config too.Fixed in revision 695766.I considered merging this to the 1.4 branch but decided otherwise since this change affects the configuration settings. Better to leave this for 1.5.
