TextFilters get called three times within checkin method
If you want to add a PDF document to a repository using a PdfTextFilter and you do the following steps session.save node.checkin The method PdfTextFilter.doFilter gets called 4 times session s save method calls doFilter one time. This is normal But checkin method calls doFilter three times. Is this normal I do not see the sense. Marcel Reutegger marcel.reutegger gmx.net to jackrabbit-dev More options 11 43 am 13 minutes ago Hi Martin this is unfortunate and should be improved. the reason why this happens is the following the search index implementation always indexes a node as a whole to improve query performance. that means even if a single property changes the parent node with all its properties is re-indexed. unfortunately the checkin method sets properties in three separate transactions causing the search to re-index the according node three times. usually this is not an issue because the index implementation keeps a buffer for pending index work. that is if you change the same property several times and save after each setProperty call it won t actually get re-indexed several times. but text filters behave differently here because they extract the text even though the text will never be used. eventually this will improve without any change to the search index implementation because as soon as versioning participates properly in transactions there will only be one call to index a node on checkin . as a quick fix we could improve the text filter classes to only parse the binary when the returned reader is acutally used.Tagged for 1.1All text filter implementations now use a lazy reader which is initialized when a lucene document is added to the index. Text filtering has been moved into this initialization block and is therefore delayed until really needed. The following sequence will not cause text filtering anymore - add nt resource - save - remove nt resource - save The following sequence will cause text filtering before the query can be executed - add nt resource - save - execute query - will trigger text filtering on nt resource - remove nt resource - save Please note that this fix is backward compatible with the Jackrabbit 1.0 release. You may use a build with revision 392211of jackrabbit-index-filters with jackrabbit-core-1.0. Fixed in revision 392211Merged for 1.0.1 in revision 409517.
