read IOHandlers from the config.xml
I would like to be able to change the order of the IOHandlers and add some.here is my patch. Some informations about it I had a node IOHandlers in the config which contains a list of IOhandler. the ResourceConfig load the iohandlers and add it to the IOManager. if thenode IOHandlers does not exist in the config.xml we use the default IOhandlers hard coded. If it exist we use the IOhandlers from the config file. I had to change protected DefaultIOManager boolean doInit to public to be able to say if we initialize with the hard coded IOhandlers or not.thanks for the patch. i will take a look at it. just a couple of comments regarding the patch. first of all i would rather want the config to rely on interfaces as much as possible instead of making the example implementations with the server io package to a quasi standard. second i think it would be better to create a basic and very simple IOManager implementation that does not load any handlers. this would lead to the following major changes of the patch IOManager IOHandler - extend the IOHandler interface by a setIOManager IOManager method. - create a IOManager implementation that does not init any handler. instead the internal list is populated   by calling addIOHandler . - this would make the protected constructor of the DefaultIOManager redandant and the   DefaultIOManager could do one thing as its name insinuates provide some default behaviour for   handling import export. - the optional iomanager field with in the IOHandler can be set while adding the handler to   the managers list by calling IOHandler.setIOManager this . - the existing iohandler implementations need a default constructor ResourceConfig - The iohandler elements should rather be children of the iomanager. they don t have a meaning   but within the manager they belong to. - iohandler elements are optional - iohandler as well as iomanager must define a class name pointing to an implementation of    the corresponding interfaces. - the configuration expects but a empty constructor for both iohandler and iomanager if nobody objects i would modify the config and iohandler manager accordingly. regards angelaimplemented as discussed revision 396565 Rescheduled for 1.1.
