The repository-1.5.dtd is not well formed
The repository-1.5.dtd file at http jackrabbit.apache.org dtd repository-1.5.dtd is not well formed at the time of this writing 200 05 23 19 30GMT 1. It looks like a REQUIRED is missing at line 173 2. Detected this while trying the 5minutes with ocm tutorial Hope this helps  S.So line 173 should be ATTLIST AccessControlProvider class CDATA REQUIRED Is this correct Hi    Thanks for coding that late - at least it s late here in europe. But you re the only one who can be sure. Maybe it can be IMPLIED i.e. ATTLIST AccessControlProvider class CDATA IMPLIED For 2 reasons I personaly think the REQUIRED correction you mentioned IS correct The documentation for this attribute says it s a class name it should be required so REQUIRED It corrects the document in the more restrictive way.      Sincerely   S.   Faites vous de nouveaux amis grâce à l annuaire des profils Messenger http home.services.spaces.live.com search page searchresults ss true FormId AdvPeopleSearch form SPXFRM tp 3 sc 2 pg 0 Search.DisplayName Nom public search.gender search.age Search.FirstName Pr C3 A9nom Search.LastName Nom search.location Lieu search.occupation Profession search.interests amis submit Rechercher i seems that there is an incorrect DTD on the webpage. the correct one is in the trunk since 19 march https svn.apache.org repos asf jackrabbit trunk jackrabbit-core src main resources org apache jackrabbit core config repository-1.5.dtd Does anybody know the process to update the web site I suggest that I will document this process on the wiki. If the process is tell Jukka that s fine with me - The static content on the web site comes from https svn.apache.org repos asf jackrabbit site . Anything in that directory gets automatically synced by a cron script under my account to the web site. I ll document this.set component to jackrabbit-site.Fixed on the web site with revision 668657. BTW I think it s an extremely bad idea to reference the DTD on the public server in repository.xml . What s relevant is validity according to the DTD wired into the deployed Jackrabbit no Julian I think it s an extremely bad idea to reference the DTD on the public server in repository.xml . What s relevant is validity according to the DTD wired into the deployed Jackrabbit no See JCR-695.Noted and understood. It s good that the problem described in JCR-695 was fixed. However XML parsers are required to read the DTD even when not validating as far as I recall . For instance opening repository.xml in IE as of yesterday caused IE to read the DTD from jackrabbit.apache.org and to report a validity error because of the broken DTD . The fact that it took us 3 months to fix the broken DTD on the web site seems to imply that we either should drop it in the future or to make sure that it actually works regression test for web site . Added a Hudson job to automatically validate the DTD files. - See http hudson.zones.apache.org hudson job Jackrabbit-site-dtd 
