When authentication is invalidated during redirection proxy authentication also should be invalidated
This was discovered during use by Lucene Connector Framework on 3.1. When a document is fetched through a proxy authenticated with NTLM and that document is a redirection 301 or 302 the httpclient fails to properly use the right proxy credentials on the subsequent document fetch. This leads to 407 errors on these kinds of documents. I ve attached a proposed patch. Karl The 3.1 code line is pretty much at end of life. I can commit the patch but there will be no official releases from the 3.x code line. Please consider upgrading to HttpClient 4.0 OlegI m aware of 3.1 s older status but 4.x is not yet available via the stable debian distribution so until it is available that s the version I m stuck with. In any case the goal of this submission is as much to verify that 4.x does not have the problem as it is to request a fix in 3.1. Then I suggest you file the issue with Debian. Then I suggest you file the issue with Debian. That is what I have done. But that is nevertheless immaterial if this problem still exists in HttpClient 4.0 which I believe is the latest stable release. Can you guarantee that it is resolved in that version Karl 1 HttpComponents is an open-source project overseen by ASF. The only thing we can truly guarantee here is that you get full source code and nothing else. 2 HttpClient 4.0 does a lot of things very differently compared to HttpClient 3.1 so there is really no way of telling whether the problem is still there without proper testing. However just by looking at the code I do think HttpClient 4.0 is no longer affected by the bug. http hc.apache.org httpcomponents-client httpclient xref org apache http impl client DefaultRequestDirector.html 995 3 I will commit your patch to the 3.x branch tonight. 4 I am not sure I fully understand why you are not able to upgrade Lucene Connector Framework to the latest version of HttpClient and what this has to do with Debian stable. Oleg Hi Oleg Believing it is resolved is good enough for me - thanks. The issue of adoption of 4.x is complex. There are several stakeholders involved here so maybe a little background will help. First Lucene Connector Framework s code base was recently granted to ASF by MetaCarta Inc.. MetaCarta works primarily in the debian world and the debian world has limited itself to HttpClient 3.1 for the medium-term future. Internal politics at MetaCarta make it hard for me to adopt packages later than those in the current debian distribution but having said that I can certainly lobby for permission to create my own httpclient 4.1 debian package for MetaCarta s use. Second let me put on my LCF hat. For LCF s purposes 4.x s approach of having Httpclient s NTLM support be optional and reliant on jCIFS is problematic as well since jCIFS is LGPL licensed. This is not insurmountable but it is certainly a major complication. Now the MetaCarta LCF Apache grant included a patch file for HttpClient 3.1-2 which included code for all three tickets I ve submitted - and also includes a fully granted implementation of NTLM for HttpClient which I ve attached to ticket HTTPCLIENT-919. If you folks decide accept it and use it in the 4.x code base then our path to using 4.x in LCF is simply a matter of mechanics and time. Finally my overriding goal here has been to start the process of reconciling LCF s version of HttpClient with the version being distributed so this is hoped to be an ongoing discussion. Hope this helps.... Karl a fully granted implementation of NTLM for HttpClient What exactly do you mean by granted implementation Granted by what entity Is Microsoft aware of this implementation and of the fact that this code can be distributed as a part of an open source project OlegThe implementation is effectively a clean-room implementation of client-side NTLM based on published web protocol descriptions and with some protocol clarifications from Michael Allen. So we believe it does not violate anyone s copyright. No warranty is granted that it does not violate any Microsoft patents. However please note that there are at least two other open source projects out there that distribute code that is functionally similar. These are - jCIFS jcifs.samba.org which you are familiar - curl which I presume you have heard of also Can you clarify what patents you believe to be in play here We may be able to do some independent research to see if these concerns appear to be warranted. Thanks Karl I am not a patent lawyer so whatever I have to say on the matter has no bearing of what so ever. The only group of people that can make definitive statements on the matter is the ASF legal committee. If they decide it is okay to use algorithms in the ASF code that may potentially be covered by patents held by Microsoft the matter would be settled. However given the fact they have been unable to make up their mind about the use of LGPL code in ASF code for years I would not be holding my breath. Welcome to the wonderful world of ASF bureaucracy. Until this matter is decided upon by the ASF legal people I personally will not touch Microsoft specific code with a barge pole. If MetaCarta Inc have enough lawyers sitting around good for you. I am just a regular guy writing code at his spare time. A mere potential threat of a lawsuit is enough for me. I am aware of multiple open-source implementations of the NTLM protocol. However this is not a copyright matter but that of intellectual property rights. This is about a liability for the use of Microsoft IP in commercial products not for writing open-source code. The existence of open-source implementations does not prove or disprove anything.Patch checked in. Oleg
