Remove lib directory from SVN trunk
build.xml expects to find junit.jar in the lib directory for building and running tests. The jar is not included in SVN but nor is the jar ignored so when it is downloaded it shows up as an unversioned file. The file should be included in or excluded from SVN. Note In JMeter we use a lib opt directory. This is present in SVN - but all contents are ignored. This can be used for extra jars that cannot be or are not included in SVN. Could use the same approach for junit.jar...I suggest lib directory be removed all together OlegI am in favor of removing the lib ...jar files from SVN. We could put a README.txt file there telling people what JAR files they should download and copy there. Or at least where to look for that information on our web page. Not everyone is familiar with maven and will look under Project Info Dependencies . cheers   Roland Patch take 1 . Please review OlegHi Oleg I would mention the optional requirements after the hard requirements. Should we split the description into build time and runtime requirements cheers   Roland Both logging and codec are compile time and runtime requirements. I do not see a split here. Fee free to take this issue over and change the description any way you see fit OlegHi Oleg wasn t this bug report openend because of junit which is a build-time dependency only Of course we can have DEPENDENCIES.txt list the runtime dependencies while build-time dependencies are listed on the maven-generated website. Makes more sense for the binary distribution at least. cheers   Roland wasn t this bug report openend because of junit which is a build-time dependency only One does not need junit.jar in order to build the thing only to be able to run test cases. It is a test time dependency. My preference would be to describe runtime dependencies only and be done with it OlegHi Oleg OK lets leave it with the runtime dependencies. cheers   Roland Fine by me if the jars are removed. However unless the lib directory properties are set to ignore the jars they will show up as un-versioned whenever someone does a build. So please can the appropriate svn ignore properties be added to the lib directory So please can the appropriate svn ignore properties be added to the lib directory Absolutely. OlegLib directory removed from the SVN trunk and added to the svn ignore list OlegLooks like this change broke the GUMP build. From the mail on the developer list Project commons-httpclient has an issue affecting its community integration. ... dist copy Copying 1 file to x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient dist copy Copying 1 file to x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient dist copy Copying 1 file to x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient dist copy Copying 1 file to x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient dist jar Building jar x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient dist commons-httpclient.jar mkdir Created dir x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient dist src copy Copying 284 files to x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient dist src mkdir Created dir x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient dist lib BUILD FAILED x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient build.xml 164 x1 gump public workspace jakarta-commons httpclient lib not found. There is some historic step in the dist target that will copy the now removed lib directory to the distribution target directory. The libs are not part of the distribution so I guess this step is pointless. patch follows please review and test I don t have the environment running at the moment cheers   Roland Looks good. Please go ahead and commit it OlegThere are several aspects to this 1 whether or not to include the jar dependencies in releases 2 whether or not to include the jar dependencies in SVN 3 where to put the required jars for building and testing The decision on 1 2 seems to be NO. But 3 still needs to be satisfied for both Gump and developer Ant Eclipse builds. Gump is probably best satisfied by adding dependencies on the required projects. I will try and sort this Developer builds require somewhere to put the jars. One way to do this is to re-instate the lib directory but then add svn ignore for the relevant jars or indeed all jars . Developers can then download the jars and put them in the lib directory which is where build.xml expects to find them.Sorry I was wrong about needing to fix Gump - that just needs the build.xml patch to remove the copy of the files in lib.Update DEPENDENCIES.txt describe where to put the jar files for building and testingPatch checked in. Many thanks Sebastian. I have also added your name to the list of project contributors Oleg
