improved snowball testing
Snowball project has test vocabulary files for each language in their svn repository along with expected output. We should use these tests to ensure all languages are working correctly and it might be helpful in the future for identifying back breaks changes if we ever want to upgrade snowball etc. attached is a patch that does an svn checkout of rev 500 which is what we are using of these test files and has a test class to check every language. the test for all languages is a total of 2 seconds on my computer fast it takes about 10 seconds to do the svn checkout since this stuff is BSD-licensed we could comment out the hook to do the checkout and instead actually commit the files if we want i think as long as we do the proper NOTICE stuff etc. Please note two languages are commented out Finnish and Lovins these currently fail. I only investigated this enough to determine that it wasn t my LUCENE-2194 performance improvement commit that broke these they were broken with the previous revision too. we should probably get to the bottom of these. its worth mentioning for the two broken languages Finnish and Lovins that they use some snowball operations none of the others do. So I think its not gonna be too bad to get to the bottom of this. Robert those test seem to be very extensive - thats good But honestly think we should make those tests optional in some way. The files you are downloading are very large and might be an issues for some folks. The filesize is over 70MB which is a lot for a test. I need to thing about this a little and come up with some suggestions. Simon these files are large 70MB but so is the 65MB reuters corpus that the benchmark test downloads The revision no. in the svn co works exactly like I proposed in LUCENE-2193 for the BW tests in lucene core. Hello I ran some tests today and the problems with Finnish and Lovins are bugs in snowball itself. These two languages give correct results with their generated C code but incorrect results with generated Java code. I reported this to the snowball list it is not a lucene problem. So I feel fine with leaving these commented out for now and also proceeding with performance improvements. here is a link to the bug with an example http article.gmane.org gmane.comp.search.snowball 1137 i would like to commit this one at the end of the day if no one objects. Simon you ok with this one looks good to me. I haven t applied it but looks good though 1 from my side Committed revision 898950.
