Site search powered by Lucene Solr
For a number of years now the Lucene community has been criticized for not eating our own dog food when it comes to search. My company has built and hosts a site search http www.lucidimagination.com search that is powered by Apache Solr and Lucene and we d like to donate it s use to the Lucene community. Additionally it allows one to search all of the Lucene content from a single place including web wiki JIRA and mail archives. See also http www.lucidimagination.com search document bf22a570bf9385c7 search on lucene apache org You can see it live on Mahout Tika and Solr Lucid has a fault tolerant setup with replication and fail over as well as monitoring services in place. We are committed to maintaining and expanding the search capabilities on the site. The following patch adds a skin to the Forrest site that enables the Lucene site to search Lucene only content using Lucene Solr. When a search is submitted it automatically selects the Lucene facet such that only Lucene content is searched. From there users can then narrow broaden their search criteria. I plan on committing in a 3 or 4 days. Patch attached. The Lucene site is in two parts one for a specific version covered by the other patch and one for the generic site covered by this patch. Committing shortly. I m rebuilding the site docs for LUCENE-1522 and seeing this diff vs what s checked in under docs index.html - input onFocus getBlank this Search the site with google size 25 name q id query type text value Search the site with google nbsp input onFocus getBlank this Search the site with Lucene size 25 name q id query type text value Search the site with Lucene nbsp input name Search value Search type submit I m confused... because the nightly refresh cron job just copies docs out to production I thought Yet when I look in production http lucene.apache.org java docs index.html I see Search the site with Lucene correctly . I can simply commit LUCENE-1522 w the above diff but I can t explain why production doesn t now say Search the site with google .... Checking...
