disable atime for DirectIOLinuxDirectory
In Linux s open O NOATIME Since Linux 2.6.8 Do not update the file last access time st atime in the inode when the file is read 2 . This flag is intended for use by indexing or backup programs where its use can significantly reduce the amount of disk activity. This flag may not be effective on all filesystems. One example is NFS where the server maintains the access time. So we should do this in our linux-specific DirectIOLinuxDirectory. Separately offtopic it would be better if this was a LinuxDirectory that only uses O DIRECT when it should It would be nice to think about an optional modules native for common platforms similar to what tomcat provides Its easier to test directories like this now -Dtests.directory ... all core tests pass with this directory. robert you can also control this through mount options how you mount your filesystems with setting the noatime option on the mount command do you think this is absolutely necessary to set this in here by default simon Simon of course you can but why not set it Our indexes don t need the atime for any reason. The option exists specifically for apps like lucene... see the description from the man page Also simon i just wanted to say you need to be root to change the mount option etc. I think this is totally appropriate for us to do again quoting from the page This flag is intended for use by indexing or backup programs where its use can significantly reduce the amount of disk activity. The option exists specifically for apps like lucene... see the description from the man page The intention behind the man page is not for the part of the app that manages the index itsself like Lucene - it is for the part of the app that reads files to index them so that would be the app that uses lucene and e.g. uses TIKA to read all files this one should set noatime . The idea is to not mark the file as accessed when the virus scanner or the KDE gnome file system browser indexes it. Simon is right about setting it as a mount option. Uwe I don t interpret it that way I don t think our indexinputs should be doing writes 1 this is a no brainer. I had no idea linux lets you turn off atime per file desriptor It s ridiculous that the OS maintains an atime on our index files. Uwe I agree about the intention of the man page so eg back when contrib benchmark used to write 10 000 files to run its tests and then index them we could ve seen a big speedup but still it can t hurt to also turn it off when opening the index files for reading. I think atime is updated per-read not just at open http lkml.org lkml 1998 12 14 81 though I m not sure. Even so it s presumably cached in the OS s write buffer and then only flushed periodically so I don t think we ll see sizable gains here. But every bit counts so I think we should do it. after all i think we should really do it. I can not think of any situation where you want atime to be updated here. It seems that lots of distributions use relatime which is smarter about it see http lwn.net Articles 244829 we should really document that on the wiki so that folks can check what their dist does or by default set it to noatime. simon Committed revision 1041954 trunk 1041957 3x Bulk close for 3.1
