Make Lucene - Java 1.9.1 Available in Maven2 repository in iBibilio.org
Please upload 1.9.1 release to iBiblio so that Maven users can easily use the latest release. Currently 1.4.3 is the most recently available version http www.ibiblio.org maven2 lucene lucene Please read the following FAQ for more information http maven.apache.org project-faq.html And Maven 1.x http www.ibiblio.org maven lucene jars for those of us who haven t upgraded yet Also please upload the various lucene contrib jars if possible. Note that the recommendation for Maven 2 is such that the Lucene groupId should change from just lucene to org.apache.lucene . To get the distribution on to ibiblio you can just do a deploy to the ASF repo http www.apache.org dist maven-repository and it will be rsync d to ibiblio autoagically. I believe that will cause it to show up in the Maven 1 repo as well. It would be great if some nice Lucene person could take care of this. Thanks in advance. Why can t Maven folks upload releases Why is the burden on Lucene Lucene publishes releases that anyone can download to standard Apache distribution directories. Why can t Maven get them from there like everyone else To your question 1 the Maven people cannot track every release of every artifact across all open source organisations which is basically what is maintained in the Maven repository. There used to be a mechanism whereby a PMC could request that their artifact be loaded into the repository I m not sure if that mechanism still exists given that there is a local ASF repository that is automatically synced to the main Maven one. To your question 2 Maven is a repository-based build system. It automatically downloads dependencies for a project based on the dependency information provided in the project s POM Project Object Model . With Maven 2 it also automatically downloads transitive dependencies. This is an awesome improvement over other build systems such as Ant which leaves you to manage your own dependecies. In order that Maven can locate and download the appropriate jar files those jar files must be deployed to the Maven repository. It wouldn t be realistic to expect Maven to be able to locate and extract jar files from within a binary distribution given that there is no standard way that these are packages and distributed. Comment by Doug Cutting 23 May 06 05 22 PM Why can t Maven folks upload releases Why is the burden on Lucene Lucene publishes releases that anyone can download to standard Apache distribution directories. Why can t Maven get them from there like everyone else Why not ask Martin if he wants the assigment to make sure iBiblio is updated I can help being a Maven user myself. I added the iBiblio informatoin to http wiki.apache.org jakarta-lucene ReleaseTodo . If you have more details to add please add them there. For instance read point 3 there. The README says there is no auto-magical syncing while Martin Cooper above says there is. Which one is it Maybe I m looking at the wrong location minotaur.apache.org x1 www www.apache.org dist maven-repository as there is not much underneath that directory. I see the new Lucene 2.0 didn t make it to iBiblio. Please see my previous comment and questions so we can take care of this. I ve deployed Lucene Core 1.9.1 and 2.0.0 to the ASF Maven 2 repository http www.apache.org dist maven-repository org apache lucene lucene-core and requested on dev maven.a.o that they be synced to ibiblio. Thanks Martin and ignore my email I see all the info is here and at http wiki.apache.org jakarta-lucene ReleaseTodo . Are there any plans to also publish the new release to the Maven 1 repository on ibiblio.org We at Jackrabbit still use Maven 1.0.2 as our build tool. Only the 1.9.1 release is still broken http people.apache.org repo m2-ibiblio-rsync-repository org apache lucene lucene-core 1.9.1 Note that the JAR is only 2.3Kb.
