Ability to group search results by field
It would be awesome to group search results by specified field. Some functionality was provided for Apache Solr but I think it should be done in Core Lucene. There could be some useful information like total hits about collapsed data like total count and so on. Thanks Artyom This is an initial patch that allows result grouping with Lucene via a Collector and an attempt to integrate result grouping into Lucene Solr. The collector can be used just like any other collector and returns TopDocs. The TopDocs contains GroupDoc instances which is a subclass of ScoreDoc. I think this way it is easier to integrate grouping into existing code that uses Lucene like Solr . I think that grouping code should be part of Lucene instead of Solr. I put the result grouping into a new contrib that I named grouping. Putting it in a contib seemed the right place for me. The patch doesn t contain any Solr code and I think a new issue in Solr should be opened for that. This patch is inspired by by SOLR-236 but only contains its core functionality. Nonadjacent grouping based on field value with group counts. Also in the code i don t use the verb collapsing but grouping. This patch is also faster then the Solr variants. This because the grouping occurs whilst the documents are collected and thus saves multiple searches. Also the grouping algorithm itself is improved. Although this is work in progress any thought about this would be appriciated. BTW the patch is based on the Lucene trunk and is relative to the trunk directory I think that grouping code should be part of Lucene instead of Solr. 1 This is a very popular issue currently tied for 2nd place in votes . Unfortunately I think the single-pass collector attached here doesn t scale very well to large maxDoc and or large number of unique groups. Also it pulls a DocTermsIndex on the top-level reader costly in an NRT reopen setting since it s not per-segment . So I decided to factor out parts of Solr s current two-pass approach into a shared grouping module. The downside of the two-pass approach is you run the query twice automatically halving your QPS. It s even worse because the grouping itself is somewhat computing intensive too . To try to help mitigate this I also added a new CachingCollector which just holds hits docID and optionally score up to a max allowed RAM consumption and can then replay them for the 2nd pass. In includes a max RAM setting so that if too many hits are found it stops caching and you must then re-execute the query . But one nice side effect of the two-phased approach is that sharding is in theory straightforward I think . Ie all shards would do the first phase concurrently to get the top N groups. Then you merge-sort the resulting top groups then run second phase finding docs w in the top groups on all shards then merge results from the same group across all shards. Initial rough patch. I think it s working well. I reused the test case from the original patch thank you Martijn and also created a new random test case. There are still nocommits sops javadocs to clean up... but I think it s close. We cannot yet cutover Solr to this module because it doesn t support grouping by ValueSource from a function query nor by arbitrary query. This refactoring groups by a single-valued indexed field. I think we need to first refactor function queries LUCENE-2883 and also filter caches out of Solr before cutting Solr over. I plan to backport this to 3.x as contrib grouping. The issue I have with the group true feature in Solr is that the facets are not calculated post grouping. So I cannot show the count in the facet list for a field. If we can get the facets to return counts POST grouping that would be ideal. Bill Nice work Michael I also think that the two pass mechanism is definitely the preferred way to go. I think we also need a strategy mechanism or at least an GroupCollector class hierarchy inside this module. The mechanism should select the right group collector s for a certain request. Some users maybe only care about the top group document so I second pass won t be necessary. Another example with faceting in mind. When group based faceting is necessary. The top N groups don t suffice. You ll need all group docs I currently don t see a other way . These groups docs are then used to create a grouped Solr DocSet. But this should be a completely different implementation. Patch w next iteration... I beefed up the overview.html added test case coverage of null groupValue. I think it s ready to commit and then back-port to 3.x I think we also need a strategy mechanism or at least an GroupCollector class hierarchy inside this module. The mechanism should select the right group collector s for a certain request. Some users maybe only care about the top group document so I second pass won t be necessary. Another example with faceting in mind. When group based faceting is necessary. The top N groups don t suffice. You ll need all group docs I currently don t see a other way . These groups docs are then used to create a grouped Solr DocSet. But this should be a completely different implementation. I agree there s much more we could do here Specialized collection for the maxDocsPerGroup 1 case and for the I want all groups case would be nice. For the not many unique values in the group field case we could do a single-pass collector I think. Grouping by a multi-valued field should be possible we now have DocTermOrds in Lucene but it doesn t load the term byte data as well as support for sharding ie by merging top groups and docs w in each group but I think we need an addition to FieldComparator API for this . I think we should commit this starting point today and then iterate from there... Martijn thank you for persisting for so long on SOLR-236 We are finally getting grouping functionality accessible from Lucene and Solr... If we can get the facets to return counts POST grouping that would be ideal. How would the field values for the group be defined... Or would facets run on all not-collapsed docs... Say we have 4 documents docid 1 hgid 1 age 10 docid 2 hgid 1 age 10 docid 3 hgid 2 age 12 docid 4 hgid 4 age 11 If we group by hgid we would get hgid 1 docid 1 hgid 1 age 10 docid 2 hgid 1 age 10 hgid 3 docid 3 hgid 2 age 12 hgid 4 docid 4 hgid 4 age 11 If I set Facet Counts POST age 10 1 document age 11 1 document age 12 1 document If I set Facet Counts PRE age 10 2 document age 11 1 document age 12 1 document The only way grouping works in Solr now is Facet Counts PRE. Thanks. But what if docid 2 had age 17 instead How would we determine what value the group for hgid 1 should have for the age field Or... would the group count 1 to age 10 and 1 to age 17 in that case ie as if the group were a single document w multi-valued field age . But what if docid 2 had age 17 instead How would we determine what value the group for hgid 1 should have for the age field That would depend on the group sort right If your group sort is age asc the lowest document would be chosen. Or... would the group count 1 to age 10 and 1 to age 17 in that case You mean like a sum of all ages per group That is interesting but sounds more like a function to me. This can be computed with a separated group collector. Wouldn t make sense to me to have this with a regular field facet. But what if docid 2 had age 17 instead How would we determine what value the group for hgid 1 should have for the age field That would depend on the group sort right If your group sort is age asc the lowest document would be chosen. OK I see. So the group is represented by the doc within it that sorts highest according to the group sort and any faceting on the groups means faceting on that top doc s values per group. Neat. Or... would the group count 1 to age 10 and 1 to age 17 in that case You mean like a sum of all ages per group That is interesting but sounds more like a function to me. This can be computed with a separated group collector. Wouldn t make sense to me to have this with a regular field facet. Well not sum but multi-valued Ie as if this group were represented by a doc that takes the union of all age values of docs within it . This way if the user then does a drill-down by a specific age the number of groups then returned would match the facet count of that age in the first query. I agree we need to hash out these semantics Bill could you open a separate Lucene issue to work out the semantics impl for post-grouping-faceting Unfortunately it s blocked by factoring out the facet module LUCENE-3079 . Michael I see you have committed it to the trunk. Nice work Only one quest why is the SearchGroup class now package protected For me the documentation in overview.html suggest that I can just use it in any package. As for porting this code to the 3x branch I see that this branch doesn t have modules. Does it mean that it will be a Lucene contrib Woops it should not be protected I ll fix... thanks Martijn Yes I ported to 3.x as contrib grouping so this will be released when we release 3.2. Hi Martijn in 3.x it is available as a lucene contrib contrib grouping . As far as classes being package-private I don t think Mike intended this as they are marked experimental. Want to upload a patch that ensures everything you need has correct visibility Want to upload a patch that ensures everything you need has correct visibility Only the SearchGroup class had different visibility compared to the patch. And Michael says he is going to change that. So I think a patch for that is a bit overkill. Yes I ported to 3.x as contrib grouping so this will be released when we release 3.2. Cool After a svn update I see the contrib now as well. The question is how to go from here. Continue development in this issue or for each new grouping related feature a separate issue E.g. think about class hierarchy strategy for grouping collectors. And new collectors like UniqueFieldValueCountGroupCollector. I haven t see an issue regarding post faceting yet. I can create one if necessary Only the SearchGroup class had different visibility compared to the patch. And Michael says he is going to change that. So I think a patch for that is a bit overkill. Ok thanks for taking a look... I just figured we could tackle any visibility issues at once but it seems this is the only one. I haven t see an issue regarding post faceting yet. I can create one if necessary Sure of course it will unfortunately need to be blocked on LUCENE-3079 but it seems like a good idea to have the issue open for planning. The question is how to go from here. Continue development in this issue or for each new grouping related feature a separate issue E.g. think about class hierarchy strategy for grouping collectors. And new collectors like UniqueFieldValueCountGroupCollector. My opinion would be to open new issues for each new grouping feature This way things can get committed faster and its easier to review patches when there are enormous jira issues with a mix of unrelated patches its pretty difficult to keep up with what is happening . These apis are marked experimental so I don t think we should waste time on backwards compatibility nor should we try to come up with holy grail solutions that solve everyones problems in one single commit... I think we should go iteratively. Patches welcome Resolving this... we can iterate in further issues. Thanks Martijn I adding grouping queries to the nightly benchmarks http people.apache.org mikemccand lucenebench Ð see TermGroup100 10K 1M. The F annotation is the day grouping queries first ran. Those queries are the same queries running as TermQuery just with grouping turned on on 3 randomly generated fields with 100 10 000 and 1 million unique values. So we can gauge the perf hit by comparing to TermQuery each night. I use the CachingCollector. First off I m impressed that the perf hit for grouping is not too bad Query QPS Slowdown TermQuery baseline 30.72 0 TermGroup100 13.59 2.26 TermQuery10K 13.2 2.34 TermQuery1M 12.15 2.53 I had expected we d pay a bigger perf hit Second there more unique groups you have the slower grouping gets but that multiplier really isn t so bad Ð the 1M unique groups case is only 10.6 slower than the 100 unique groups case. Remember though that these groups are randomly generated full-unicode strings so real data could very well produce different results... Third and this is insanity the addition of grouping caused other unexpected changes. Most horribly SpanNearQuery slowed down by 12.2 http people.apache.org mikemccand lucenebench SpanNear.html while other queries seem to get a bit faster. I think this is frustratingly due to hotspot making different decisions about which code to optimize inline. Similarly strange when I added sorting TermQuery sorting by title and date time E annotation in all graphs I saw the variance in the unsorted TermQuery performance drop substantially. I m pretty sure this wide variance was due to hotspot s erratic decision making but somehow the addition of sorting while not change TermQuery s mean QPS caused hotspot to at least be somewhat more consistent in how it compiled the code. Maybe as we add more and more diverse queries to the benchmark we ll see hotspot behave more reasonably .... I adding grouping queries to the nightly benchmarks Nice Are the regular sort and group sort different in these test cases Do think when new features are added that these also need be added to this test suite Or is this perfomance test suite just for the basic features I m only testing groupSort and sort by relevance now in the nightly bench. I ll add sort-by-title groupSort-by-relevance cases too so we test that. Hmm though this content set is alphabetized by title I believe so it s not really a good test. I suspect that s why the TermQuery sorting by title is faster Do think when new features are added that these also need be added to this test suite Or is this perfomance test suite just for the basic features Well in general I d love to have wider coverage in the nightly perf test... really it s only a start now. But there s no hard rule we have to add new functions into the nightly bench... Bulk closing for 3.2
