Summer of Code GDATA Server Project structure and simple version to start with 
This is the initial issue for the GDATA - Server project Google Summer of Code . The purpose of the issue is to create the project structure in the svn repository to kick off the project. The source e.g. the project will be located at URL http svn.apache.org repos asf lucene java trunk contrib The attachment includes the diff text file and the jar files included in the lib directory as a tar.gz file. To get some information about the project see http wiki.apache.org general SimonWillnauer SummerOfCode2006 diff file - containing the package structure and a simple version to start with. jar files from the lib directory Simon This looks great. I am going to wait to commit it until after tomorrow when we make the 2.0 release. Not that adding this before will cause any harm but it may cause some confusion. Also we should modify the top-level build.xml to include javadoc from gdata-server into Lucene s javadoc. Please feel free to update this patch if you make progress in the next day or so before I manage to commit it. Thanks Hey Doug here is the update for the initial checkin. The diff file contains all the changes again. I did modify the toplevel build.xml to generate java-doc for the gdata project. I also added a war task to the gdata build.xml to create a war file. This might be moved somewhere else and also the target dir might be changed during later developement. Logging jars new Update for initial revision. Please process the initial revision soon. Moved source and buildfile to java 1.5 Gdata - client lib. That patch file is problemmatic. Lots of the files are included multiple times which causes them to have their content included twice. This should not happen if you simply generate a patch with something like svn diff gdata-server.txt from the top-level of the Lucene trunk. Can you please re-generate this patch Thanks. New Diff file this sould do the job for initial revision. If not i have to do the diff on the linux system - the other svn app does a better job i guess. File content is still doubled in the diff file resulting in garbled files. Have you actually tried applying this patch to an svn tree with something like patch -p 0 xxx.diff How are you generating the patch svn diff should generate something more reasonable than this. I d like to commit this... Finally I figured out what happend. I m working on two platforms Windows and Linux and I use 2 different svn applications. The windows tortoise svn did add the file twice that caused the double added files in the diff. Now I created one on the linux platform and everything is alright. I did applied the patch to a second local working copy. I did install the tortoise svn again and now thisone is working as well. Sorry about that. The diff file diff 06 06 06.diff contains all the sources the libs are already added as tar files. simon Thanks Simon. I just committed this. Closing all issues that were resolved for 2.1.
