Setup nightly build website links and docs
Per discussion on mailing list we are going to setup a Nightly Build link on the website linking to the docs and javadocs generated by the nightly build process. The build process may need to be modified to complete this task. Going forward the main website will for the most part only be updated per releases I imagine exceptions will be made for News items and per committer s discretion . The Javadocs linked to from the main website will always be for the latest release. I am working on the nightly build stuff etc. My plan is to start hosting versions under the Site Versions section. I originally planned for Official and Nightly but Chris and Doron have suggested other versions as well. I see no reason why we can t have other versions similar to the way other projects do it in Apache-land. I see two issues that have been discussed and would like some feedback on. 1. Make the official website be the nightly build website. The only issue I have w this is that it is possible for the nightly build to fail which could leave the site stale. Not a big deal as it isn t likely to be radically different just something to be aware of. 2. I would suggest the following links under Site Versions Official 2.0 1.9.1 1.9 1.4.3 Could official be the most recent release currently 2.0 So there would be Official 2.0 Nightly 1.9.1 1.9 1.4.3 This way everyday users would not have to get into trunk svn details for understanding what docs they are seeing. According to Apache policy nightly builds must not be easily confused with releases. http www.apache.org dev release.html what Thus links to nightly builds should be confined to developer portions of the site and not included on download pages. Doug How about I take the nightly build and source download off of http lucene.apache.org java docs releases.html and create a Developers section with a page full of links of developer s resources the nightly build the source download instructions how to contribute etc. -Grant maybe there is some confusion as to the purpose of this issue ... i was under the impression that Grant s primary goal was to make it possible for the site to host nightly builds of the documentation ... ie the static docs like features.html fileformats.html and gettingstarted.html and the dynamic javadocs ... so that it was possible to easily access this information for the trunk seperate and distinctly from the previous versions of hte same information included with the most recent release s . This biggest question seems to be what is the default ... as we ve already seen with the current site it s very hard to have the main versions of the site pages allways reflect the last stable release because some of htep ages news whoweare etc... need to rev more frequently then that. As i suggested in email i think the default URLs for various docs ie... http lucene.apache.org java docs api http lucene.apache.org java docs gettingstarted.html http lucene.apache.org java docs fileformats.html ...should reflect the most current version of hte information available presumably generated as part of the nightly build process that way the javadocs which might link to the static files or vice-versa are allways in sync Documentation for recent releases regardless of whether they are the most recent or not should be available using URLs with the release number in them... http lucene.apache.org java 2.0-docs api http lucene.apache.org java 2.0-docs gettingstarted.html http lucene.apache.org java 2.0-docs fileformats.html Using the Site Versions left nav element to link to the various versions... Nightly - . Stable 2.0 - .. 2.0-docs 1.9.1 - .. 1.9.1-docs 1.9 - .. 1.9-docs 1.4.3 - .. 14.3-docs ...people have expressed skepticism at the idea that the default site documentation would be for the trunk instead of the last stable release but that seems like the simplest most straight forward way for things to work. People lookingfor information about a specific release have it readily available 9and unlike in the past it will be available at a URL that will never change on them I have updated committed the nightly.sh script to not only build the nightly distribution but it also updates the web site located at people.a.o and to run generate the clover test coverage reports. See http wiki.apache.org jakarta-lucene HowNightlyBuildsAreMade Nightly builds are now handled by my crontab on lucene.zones.a.o. The main Lucene website starting tonight actually in 45 mins or so as I ran one last test to make sure it works should now reflect the nightly build of the website. Links to specific releases are available from the menu on the left Site Versions . Clover code coverage reports should be generated nightly and are linked to from the Developers page of the Resources section. This means we will no longer have to sync the website. It should all be automatic. I have updated http wiki.apache.org jakarta-lucene ReleaseTodo but since I have never done a release I would appreciate it if someone who has will review the new instructions steps 12 and 13 If all goes well tonight I will put up a new news item on the site make an announcement on user mailing list and then close out this issue. Nightly build distribution of binary jars should not contain instrumented classes from Clover. OK I think this is up and running sufficiently to resolve this issue. Have updated nightly.sh to update the website and the clover test reports. The latest version of the nigthly build 45 4 6 2007 contains references to Clover. Thanks Tim. We are looking into it. We are converting to use Hudson so there may be a few bumps along the way. Grant Ingersoll Center for Natural Language Processing http www.cnlp.org Read the Lucene Java FAQ at http wiki.apache.org jakarta-lucene LuceneFAQ
