Improved Kuromoji search mode segmentation decompounding
Kuromoji has a segmentation mode for search that uses a heuristic to promote additional segmentation of long candidate tokens to get a decompounding effect. This heuristic has been improved. Patch is coming up. Find attached a patch for trunk that improves the heuristic. Search segmentation tests examples are in search-segmentation-tests.txt and is validated by TestSearchMode. Note that both the tests and the heuristic is tuned for IPADIC. Hence we need to revisit this when we add support for other dictionaries models. I ve also moved the ASF license header in TestExtendedMode.java to the right place. If you want to try the new search mode there s a simple Kuromoji web interface available on http atilika.org kuromoji that perhaps is useful. After inputing some text and pressing enter click normal mode to switch to search mode to test the various segmentation modes for the given input. Patch looks good to me... so the basics are we apply a different penalty based on whether the text is kanji or not rather than just a single penalty of 10000 and some parameter tuning Note that both the tests and the heuristic is tuned for IPADIC. Hence we need to revisit this when we add support for other dictionaries models. I think this is ok for now. Long term if there end out being different values for other dictionaries we can conditionalize these on dictionary type either at build-time recording these values into dictionary or better record the dictionary type itself and conditionalize these at run-time based on dictionary type. By recording the type we would also be able to use e.g. assumeTrue dictionaryType IPADIC in unit tests and things like that and who knows what else but lets not worry about it here. Patch looks good to me... so the basics are we apply a different penalty based on whether the text is kanji or not rather than just a single penalty of 10000 and some parameter tuning Thanks a lot Robert. That s correct. I agree completely regarding other dictionary support. Thanks Christian 
