light minimal stemming for euro languages
The snowball stemmers are very aggressive and it would be nice if there were lighter alternatives. Some applications may want to perform less aggressive stemming for example http www.lucidimagination.com search document 5d16391e21ca6faf plural only stemmer Good relevance tested algorithms exist and I think we should provide these alternatives. patch not ready for committing. only some of these are ready others need tests where I intentionally put a fail placeholder to indicate they are still untested . also i didn t implement the finnish one yet but it contains various implementations for 9 euro languages. Man are you fast Does the English one deal with women woman and foci focus type stuff Man are you fast not really i ve been working it for a while but since someone asked i figure i would create the issue. testing isnt done but english french portuguese I think are ok. the others need a lot of tests and probably have bugs. Does the English one deal with women woman and foci focus type stuff Nope the english one is the Harman s-stemming algorithm. its very simple if final is -ies but not -eies or -aies then replace -ies by -y return if final is -es but not -aes -ees or -oes then replace -es by -e return if final is -s but not -us or -ss then remove -s return. For special cases like you mentioned if you want them i would recommend adding these customizations yourself as documented here http wiki.apache.org solr LanguageAnalysis Customizing Stemming just make a tab-separated file of words-stems and put a StemmerOverrideFilter Factory before the stemmer in the stream. I think this alone provides a lot of flexibility. if it isn t enough then i think these stemmers are much simpler to modify if you wanted to go that route also I updated the patch I think this is ready to go added finnish created vocabulary tests from reference C perl whatever impls and found fixed bugs in every language but en pt fr as promised in my last comment created a VocabularyAssert junit util class and refactored the existing snowball porter german and russian tests to use it too. refactored a bunch of utility stuff that was duplicated everywhere such as endsWith delete and put it in StemmerUtil. to apply the patch first apply the patch itself then please unzip the zip file containing vocabulary tests LUCENE-2503 modules analysis testdata.zip from the modules analysis common dir. if no one objects i ll commit in a few days. zip file containing the vocab test zipfiles relevant to modules analysis Committed revision 964019 trunk 964034 3x Bulk close for 3.1
