Review and potentially remove unused unsupported Contribs
Some of our contribs appear to be lacking for development support or are missing tests. We should review whether they are even pertinent these days and potentially deprecate and remove them. One of the things we did in Mahout when bringing in Colt code was to mark all code that didn t have tests as deprecated and then we removed the deprecation once tests were added. Those that didn t get tests added over about a 6 mos. period of time were removed. I would suggest taking a hard look at ant db lucli swing spatial should be gutted to some extent and moved to modules patch file implementing grant s suggestions. 1 for 4.0 -0 for 3.2 1 for 4.0 I m fine w 3.2 too FWIW. I can t remember the last time someone submitted a patch or even reported a bug on any of these or even asked about them on user . 1 for 3.2 Unless there are users I m 1 for removing db anytime. Last time I fixed something there was for the Java version of db a contribution by someone else I haven t heard of in years. I haven t heard from any users with questions or bug reports in a long time either. Bye-bye DB. Few things can compete with it in pointlessness. FYI LEGAL-82 includes mention of Lucene s dependency on a Berkeley DB lib on that issue Sam Ruby says in answer to the question of the legitimacy of dependency on BDB along with other Category X works the short answer is no . The reason i havent committed the patch is because there doesn t seem to yet be consensus on what to do for 3.2 1 for 3.1 oh I forgot to mention die die die The reason i havent committed the patch is because there doesn t seem to yet be consensus on what to do for 3.2 RE 3.2 there are several 1s and no -1s Ryan s vote was -0. That looks to me like lazy consensus 1 to slash and burn. FYI LEGAL-82 includes mention of Lucene s dependency on a Berkeley DB lib on that issue Sam Ruby says in answer to the question of the legitimacy of dependency on BDB along with other Category X works the short answer is no . Hmm as recorded in LUCENE-1845 Simon Willnauer asked on legal-discuss a.o specifically about Lucene s use of a BDB dependency and Niclas Hedhman s response was actually in support of including the BDB jar as an optional dependency provided it is not shipped with the release and that the user is provided with the information that the BDB needs to be downloaded separately and advised to review their license. So the DB contribs BDB dependencies do not constitute grounds for slashing and burning them other considerations however provide sufficient support for this IMHO. 1 to slash and burn. 1 go for it ok there does seem to be some consensus now thanks guys. Ryan can you elaborate on your concerns reason for your -0 Maybe there is something we can do to address them. Committed revision 1126280. Committed revision 1126281. Bulk closing for 3.2
