Upload Lucene 2.0 artifacts in the Maven 1 repository
The Lucene 2.0 artifacts can be found in the Maven 2 repository but not in the Maven 1 repository. There are still projects using Maven 1 who might be interested in upgrading to Lucene 2 so having the artifacts also in the Maven 1 repository would be very helpful. The best way to see that this happens would be to provide information in this bug about how it can should be done ... ideally this information should be added directly to the ReleaseTodo info so it not only gets done for the 1.9.1 and 2.0.0 releases but also for future releases... http wiki.apache.org jakarta-lucene ReleaseTodo ..i can t find the refrence now but i seem to recall someone somehwere saying that things put i nthe maven2 repos were automagically copied to maven1 ... i guess that s not true afterall. The ReleaseTodo page is immutable so I can t modify it directly. At least the Maven sync directory information is outdated the new official path although I think the previous one is still symlinked is www people.apache.org repo m2-ibiblio-rsync-repository. You are right in that the artifacts in the Maven 2 repository above should AFAIK get automatically copied also to the Maven 1 repository. At least it works the other way. I ll check that and report back. FYI anyone can edit the wiki if you create an account and login. Digging deeper I found that the artifacts are actually located in the Maven 1 repository thanks to some URL rewrite magic i.e. http repo1.maven.org maven org.apache.lucene jars lucene-core-2.0.0.jar exists even though http repo1.maven.org maven org.apache.lucene jars returns a 404 error. So from my perspective it s OK to resolve this issue as Invalid. FYI anyone can edit the wiki if you create an account and login. Yes thanks. I probably had the page locally cached since I still got the immutable message on the page after creating an account and logging in. Now it shows up as editable I ll update the instructions. From the last comment it looks like the 2.0 Lucene core JAR is in maven 1.
