Replace Maven POM templates with full POMs and change documentation accordingly
The current Maven POM templates only contain dependency information the bare bones necessary for uploading artifacts to the Maven repository. The full Maven POMs in the attached patch include the information necessary to run a multi-module Maven build in addition to serving the same purpose as the current POM templates. Several dependencies are not available through public maven repositories. A profile in the top-level POM can be activated to install these dependencies from the various lib directories into your local repository. From the top-level directory mvn -N -Pbootstrap install Once these non-Maven dependencies have been installed to run all Lucene Solr tests via Maven s surefire plugin and populate your local repository with all artifacts from the top level directory run mvn install When one Lucene Solr module depends on another the dependency is declared on the artifact s produced by the other module and deposited in your local repository rather than on the other module s un-jarred compiler output in the build directory so you must run mvn install on the other module before its changes are visible to the module that depends on it. To create all the artifacts without running tests mvn -DskipTests install I almost always include the clean phase when I do a build e.g. mvn -DskipTests clean install How would the BuildListener interface know about dependencies Does it have some magic way to know this As an example lets take modules analysis icu which has 3 dependencies Lucene core itself implicit from contrib-build.xml external dependency ICU internal dependency modules analysis common take a look at modules analysis icu s pom.xml which has dependencies dependency groupId com.ibm.icu groupId artifactId icu4j artifactId version icu-version version dependency dependencies However our ant builds that depend on common-build contrib-build declare their dependencies in a semi-standard way External dependencies path id additional.dependencies fileset dir lib includes icu4j- .jar path Internal dependencies module-uptodate name analysis common jarfile .. build common lucene-analyzers-common- version .jar property analyzers-common.uptodate classpath.property analyzers-common.jar The contrib-build.xml already has a dist-maven target that is called recursively. Perhaps an alternative would be to improve contrib-build.xml for it to have a generate-maven target also called recursively. I ve already prototyped proposed in SOLR-2002 that we migrate the solr build to extend the lucene build so everywhere would use it. Furthermore couldnt we also make a recursive test-maven target that generates a maven project to download or whatever it needs then tries to run all the tests If somehow the maven is broken the tests simply won t pass. I realize that running all of a modules tests again redundantly via maven might not be the most elegant solution but it seems like it would test that everything is working. How would the BuildListener interface know about dependencies Does it have some magic way to know this BuildListener has hooks for build task onset and completion events inter alia . ant2ide listens for Javac task completion and captures from it the source and target directories as well as the build classpath. You have to invoke compilation from an Ant build in order for this to work. Seems kinda magical to me The missing part here is figuring out the maven groupId artifactId version and I think this can be dealt with by looking at the manifest in the jar. Maven-produced jars also contain their POMs and pulling from there would be even simpler. BuildListener has hooks for build task onset and completion events inter alia . ant2ide listens for Javac task completion and captures from it the source and target directories as well as the build classpath. You have to invoke compilation from an Ant build in order for this to work. Seems kinda magical to me OK i guess this is similar to when I open the project up in eclipse and say from existing ant build.xml file and it sets up my eclipse project. I m wondering whether generating poms is just going to make them more mysterious. While they are templates I can at least see them and they can be validated by XML validators including IDEs . Suddenly they are created through a more complex process which we also have to maintain. Assuming we have well-structured poms in the first place huge assumption different issue are developers unprepared to add the appropriate dependency to the necessary pom It doesn t seem like it ll happen very often most of our artifacts have very few dependencies and we resist increasing them. We can document the process make it very clear exactly what needs to be added and where. Also I m not sure all jars are going to have the appropriate manifest. If the pom is generated like Artifactory can do btw I m not sure it is packaged in the jar I think Robert was onto the right idea with this original proposal If we consider our modules section and if we add a pom at the modules level and then one for each module running a build from the modules level will recursively build each module. If there is something wrong with the poms themselves maven will fail. If a dependency is omitted meaning the code cannot be built maven will fail. If any of these 2 issues occur then the build would fail and an issue can be created for those more comfortable with maven to fix. Assuming we have well-structured poms in the first place huge assumption different issue are developers unprepared to add the appropriate dependency to the necessary pom If nothing else it is abundantly clear that there are more than a couple of Lucene Solr developers that don t want to put in any effort for Maven s sake. Also I m not sure all jars are going to have the appropriate manifest. If the pom is generated like Artifactory can do btw I m not sure it is packaged in the jar I ve looked into 10-15 jars and very few have the required info. Some even have the wrong information in the manifest... I think we can use .jar digest SHA-1 as identifiers to look up the appropriate Maven info to automatically set up POM dependencies. I wrote a script to crawl the central Maven repo for SHA-1 keyed Maven coordinates groupId artifactId version and it seems to work but at the rate it s progressing it will take 4 days to finish. Anyway it seems like overkill to gather info on all of the 250k artifacts in the Maven central repo just to handle the 80 .jar files in the Lucene Solr source tree. I found a free service that provides Maven central repo search including by artifact digest http www.jarvana.com jarvana search - it uses Lucene to power the search . I plan on using this as the basis for automatic Maven coordinate lookup for arbitrary .jars. If nothing else it is abundantly clear that there are more than a couple of Lucene Solr developers that don t want to put in any effort for Maven s sake. If developers are willing to add the dependency jar and lines to the ant file but not add the 5 lines to the pom then I m not sure any of these attempts are really going to succeed. Sure many developers don t like maven but I haven t seen any straight out refuse to use it yet unless I misread the large email thread they are just demanding ease of use. My concern here is this process is going in the opposite direction by making it vastly more complicated. What your proposing sounds like a great app independent of Lucene - a way to convert from an ant build system to a maven one but I m unsure its something that should be part of a build process instead of a once off thing. Certainly when we are trying to simplify said build process. My concern here is this process is going in the opposite direction by making it vastly more complicated. What your proposing sounds like a great app independent of Lucene - a way to convert from an ant build system to a maven one but I m unsure its something that should be part of a build process instead of a once off thing. Certainly when we are trying to simplify said build process. It is not the build process that requires simplification is anybody really calling for that but rather developers interaction with it I don t see this issue as providing a complete Ant- Maven conversion system. The poms I envision will look just like the POM templates after they are interpolated - they will provide Maven coordinates for artifacts and their dependencies nothing more. And the process to produce them can be carried out as part of generating Maven artifacts. I don t think they will need to be checked in but they certainly could be. In other words I don t plan on building a complete Maven build configuration here. Just the bare-bones POMs required to upload artifacts like the manually synched system we have now. Only without the manual synching part. Vive la simplification It is not the build process that requires simplification is anybody really calling for that but rather developers interaction with it I am trying to simplify the build with the prototype in SOLR-2002 whereas most things are in a single common-build and we invoke them recursively things like rat dist test javadocs . Right now it is complicated mostly because there are actually many build setups that are essentially standalone and then have been linked to depend on each other. It is not the build process that requires simplification is anybody really calling for that but rather developers interaction with it I am trying to simplify the build with the prototype in SOLR-2002 whereas most things are in a single common-build and we invoke them recursively things like rat dist test javadocs . I stand corrected. Build simplification is certainly a goal I support without the flexibility afforded by a coherent build system issues like this one would definitely be more difficult to implement. I stand corrected. Build simplification is certainly a goal I support without the flexibility afforded by a coherent build system issues like this one would definitely be more difficult to implement. Exactly because if you were to write a patch for this issue today you have to implement it in 4 or 5 different places at the moment or at least employ dirty ant hacks The same problem prevents us from really improving our build in other ways for example we should probably support findbugs pmd integration and things like that and it should be simple. I don t see this issue as providing a complete Ant- Maven conversion system. The poms I envision will look just like the POM templates after they are interpolated - they will provide Maven coordinates for artifacts and their dependencies nothing more. And the process to produce them can be carried out as part of generating Maven artifacts. I don t think they will need to be checked in but they certainly could be. Its this sort of middle ground that I m unsure about. We basically have maven support today but not really. Some people understand how it works but I ve certainly seen users who are dabbling in some development and are confused by our maven support. I cant think of another project that generates its poms even ant itself has the poms well-formed inside its codebase so suddenly our support has become more unusual. What I m hoping is that we can actually add quality support for maven in such a way that users wouldn t be surprised developers like you and I can get the benefits we know maven has and that also simplifies what Robert has to do. If all we can do at the moment is bolt bits of maven onto ant I m unsure its worth while. I should add that I m currently looking at how ant supports maven releases since it does have a contrib-like folder of poms well formed. I have changed the issue summary and description to manual generation of authoritative POMs rather than automatic synching of POM templates with Ant dependencies which can be pursued later. Full Maven POMs will include the information necessary to run a multi-module Maven build That sort of sounds like a parallel build process i.e. you would be able to build lucene solr itself with maven . Is it We ve avoided that type of thing in the past. Full Maven POMs will include the information necessary to run a multi-module Maven build That sort of sounds like a parallel build process i.e. you would be able to build lucene solr itself with maven . Is it We ve avoided that type of thing in the past. Yes it constitutes a parallel build process but the Ant build process would remain the official build. For example the artifacts produced by the Maven build will not be exactly the same as those produced by the Ant build process and so cannot be used as release artifacts. It has been noted elsewhere that a Maven build has never been produced for Lucene. I hope in this issue to provide that so that the discussion about whether or not to include it in the source tree has a concrete reference point. First cut at Maven POMs for Lucene and Solr. The following script which installs non-mavenized artifacts into the user s local Maven repository must be run before the Maven build works mvn install install-file -DgroupId com.ibm.icu -DartifactId icu4j -Dversion 4.4 -Dpackaging jar -Dfile modules analysis icu lib icu4j-4 4.jar mvn install install-file -DgroupId xerces -DartifactId xercesImpl -Dversion 2.9.1-patched-XERCESJ-1257 -Dpackaging jar -Dfile lucene contrib benchmark lib xerces-2.9.1-patched-XERCESJ-1257.jar mvn install install-file -DgroupId com.sleepycat -DartifactId berkeleydb -Dversion 4.7.25 -Dpackaging jar -Dfile lucene contrib db bdb lib db-4.7.25.jar mvn install install-file -DgroupId com.sleepycat -DartifactId berkeleydb-je -Dversion 3.3.93 -Dpackaging jar -Dfile lucene contrib db bdb-je lib je-3.3.93.jar mvn install install-file -DgroupId org.apache.solr -DartifactId solr-commons-csv -Dversion 4.0-SNAPSHOT -Dpackaging jar -Dfile solr lib commons-csv-1.0-SNAPSHOT-r966014.jar mvn install install-file -DgroupId org.apache.solr -DartifactId solr-noggit -Dversion r944541 -Dpackaging jar -Dfile solr lib apache-solr-noggit-r944541.jar mvn install install-file -DgroupId org.apache.tika -DartifactId tika-core -Dversion 0.8-SNAPSHOT -Dpackaging jar -Dfile solr contrib extraction lib tika-core-0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar jar xvf solr contrib extraction lib tika-parsers-0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar META-INF maven org.apache.tika tika-parsers pom.xml mvn install install-file -Dfile solr contrib extraction lib tika-parsers-0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar -DpomFile META-INF maven org.apache.tika tika-parsers pom.xml rm -rf META-INF Everything compiles using mvn -DskipTests clean install . Except for two Solr tests all tests pass. The two tests that fail for me on Win Vista 64 Sun JDK 1.6.0 13 are JettyWebAppTest and Solr Cell s ExtractingRequestHandlerTest.testArabicPDF . I have added configurations for running appassembler-maven-plugin to produce run-time windows and linux scripts with lib dirs containing dependencies for all classes with main functions that are intended as tools rather than static tests. I haven t tried using the POMs as project configuration for IntelliJ so I m not sure how that will go. This is a work-in-progress. Please test and let me know if you find problems or would like to see more stuff added or if you think the design is all wrong. One challenge worth noting is that Maven disallows aggregator POMs those with a modules section directing nested Maven invocations from producing any artifacts other than the POM itself. As a result the 4 or 5 locations in the Lucene Solr build that have mixed content to borrow the XML term for mixed nested element and text content have to be fudged e.g. the Lucene and Solr core POMs are located in lucene src and solr src because the aggregator POMs at lucene and solr can t produce binary artifacts. The conventional Maven way to address this kind of issue is to make the core modules be siblings of the nested modules. Except for two Solr tests all tests pass. The two tests that fail for me on Win Vista 64 Sun JDK 1.6.0 13 are JettyWebAppTest and Solr Cell s ExtractingRequestHandlerTest.testArabicPDF . maybe it is an icu classpath issue. modules analysis and solr contrib extraction both use different out of date versions. i opened LUCENE-2683 Hi Steven The following script which installs non-mavenized artifacts into the user s local Maven repository Would system scope dependencies be an alternative way Then we can specify the systemPath to where the jars are in the lib folders. Reason I suggest this is that if someone replaces one of those jar which will happen I m sure or simply adds another then we cannot simply update the appropriate pom. We d also need to install the jars locally possibly again . Would system scope dependencies be an alternative way I thought of that and it probably makes sense for most of them. But a jar like tika-parsers-0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar with 10 or 15 dependencies would be even messier to deal with as a system dependency than as a locally installed artifact. We would have to go look at the POM for it contained conveniently within the jar as it happens compare the dependencies against the versions of the local dependencies which would have previously had to be transferred to the both the Solr Cell and the DIH Extras POMs and make changes in both places. This version of the patch puts the third-party non-mavenized .jar installation stuff into a profile in the top-level POM. So instead of running the above-listed script instead just run the following Maven invocation mvn -N -Pbootstrap install -N disables recursive building -Pbootstrap activates the bootstrap profile defined in the POM and the local repo artifact installation stuff is bound to the install phase in the bootstrap profile. I discovered that the Tika artifact snapshots tika-core and tika-parsers are hosted at the Apache snapshots repository and that was causing these dependencies not to work properly so I switched their coordinates to org.apache.solr solr-tika- 4.0-SNAPSHOT so that they will remain stable. Also the previous patch had some weirdness with the Solr DIH Extras POM - it wasn t being treated as a new file but rather a diff from some other file the POM template I think - anyway this patch fixes the problem. Everything still compiles and all tests except the two previously failing tests still pass. Except for two Solr tests all tests pass. The two tests that fail for me on Win Vista 64 Sun JDK 1.6.0 13 are JettyWebAppTest and Solr Cell s ExtractingRequestHandlerTest.testArabicPDF . maybe it is an icu classpath issue. modules analysis and solr contrib extraction both use different out of date versions. i opened LUCENE-2683 I dropped in the ICU4J 4.4.2 jar and everything compiled and all tests succeeded under Maven except for the same two tests which continued to fail. I dropped in the ICU4J 4.4.2 jar and everything compiled and all tests succeeded under Maven except for the same two tests which continued to fail. Well it wasn t the icu issue then but we needed to upgrade anyway for the bugfixes no loss. What failure are you seeing When prototyping the the ant system refactor SOLR-2002 SOLR-2002 merged.patch i had a few issues with some tests but I don t remember the details. I remember it was really important to get the CWD of the junit run correct e.g. in that patch its property name tests.userdir location src test resources and later invoked as junit s dir tests.userdir attribute What failure are you seeing Two apparently unrelated errors JettyWebappTest.testJSP returns an HTTP 500 error as soon as it attempts to connect to the Jetty Server instantiated in setUp on line 88. I haven t figured out how to set Jetty Logging up so that I have visibility on what s happening yet. I see a call setting the solr.solr.home property in setUp on line 49 so maybe that value is not in sync with the current directory I transferred from the Ant configuration. solr contrib extraction s ExtractingRequestHandlerTest.testArabicPDF test fails because no result is found containing the extracted Arabic term line 353 . I have traced content extraction up through plain text extraction from the PDF and that seems to be working so I don t think it s a classpath issue with Tika or PDFBox. I need to keep tracing to see happens after the text extraction. Both of the failing tests were caused by missing dependencies jetty jsp-2.1 scope provided was missing from solr src pom.xml and icu4j was missing from solr contrib extraction pom.xml. With this version of the patch all tests now pass. IntelliJ IDEA project import from the Maven configuration mostly works with the exception that because the Solr core and Solrj modules each include two source directories and IntelliJ doesn t grok this fact from the POMs specified via build-helper-maven-plugin configuration builds including these two modules fail since they aren t seeing all of their source code. http youtrack.jetbrains.net issue IDEA-27176 has a work-around for this issue click on update folders for all projects button in the maven projects pane - this works for Solr core webapp src is added a source root but not for Solrj likely because the second source root solr src common is a sibling of the module root solr src solrj rather than a child. icu4j was missing from solr contrib extraction pom.xml See SOLR-1813 for details. Synch d to trunk ICU4J and Xerces-J dependency upgrades . Use mvn -N -Pbootstrap install from the top-level directory in order to install the new dependencies. Updated to trunk including addition of a POM for solr contrib analysis-extras and upgraded dependencies. All tests pass. Earlier Maven work Changes in this version of the patch Reduced configuration redundancy as much as possible shared configuration is now located in the lucene-parent POM. The solr-aggregator POM is converted to a solr-parent POM and all Solr modules are now children of it rather than of lucene-parent. This POM hosts Solr-specific shared configuration. The solr war is now generated in a new POM located in solr src webapp . This POM also includes an untested maven-jetty-plugin configuration for use in starting up Solr from Maven as requested in SOLR-1218. A profile in the lucene-parent POM to generate source jars for each module source-jar. A profile in the lucene-parent POM to generate javadoc jars for each module javadocs-jar. Consistent MANIFEST.MF entries in all archives including timestamps generated using embedded Groovy via gmaven-plugin and the Subversion revision from buildhelper-maven-plugin. NOTICE.txt and LICENSE.txt are now placed in META-INF in all archives The Maven plugin versions are updated to the latest available. All tests pass. If you have used previous versions of the patch you should re-run mvn -N -P bootstrap install from the top level to install the non-maven dependencies in your local Maven repository. Some of the jar names have changed to better reflect their names as used in Solr. To create binary javadoc and source jars and install them in your local repository run the following at any level mvn -DskipTests -P javadocs-jar source-jar clean install All tests pass again with this patch. Solr test resource structrual changes from SOLR-2299 r1054169 are now accounted for. All test CWDs are set to project.build.testOutputDirectory so that any stray files put on the CWD by tests will be cleaned up using either mvn clean or ant clean. Resync with trunk to move lucene contrib benchmark to modules benchmark LUCENE-2845 Removed lucene contrib remote LUCENE-2837 Added profiles to populate internal repositories at lucene dist maven and solr dist maven with generated artifacts. To populate lucene dist maven with POMs and binary source and javadoc artifacts run the following from the top level Lucene Solr directory mvn -N -P bootstrap deploy-to-lucene-dist-maven-repository deploy cd lucene mvn -DskipTests -Pdeploy-to-lucene-dist-maven-repository javadocs-jar source-jar deploy cd .. modules mvn -DskipTests -Pdeploy-to-lucene-dist-maven-repository javadocs-jar source-jar deploy To populate solr dist maven run the following from the top level Lucene Solr directory mvn -N -P bootstrap install cd solr mvn -DskipTests -Pdeploy-to-solr-dist-maven-repository javadocs-jar source-jar deploy carrot2 dependency upgraded to 3.4.2 SOLR-2296 This is looking good IIUC this will be a parallel build system to ant. The build and test is independent of anything the ant build does. If we take this route we should probably drop the -pom.xml.templates and the and generate-maven-artifacts target. IIUC this will be a parallel build system to ant. The build and test is independent of anything the ant build does. Yes except that the two systems share build output directories. If we take this route we should probably drop the -pom.xml.templates and the and generate-maven-artifacts target. I agree. The -pom.xml.templates have never been fully correct e.g. missing dependencies and are unmaintained. I m working on replacing generate-maven-artifacts. Set snapshot updatePolicy to never for both the apache.snapshots and the carrot2.org Maven repositories so that they won t constantly be checked for snapshot updates. Consolidated distribution-related profiles to just one named dist Solr-specific noggit and commons-csv jars are now properly placed in solr dist maven when deploying with the dist profile No longer setting the repositories uniqueVersion to false when deploying under the dist profile as a result snapshot artifacts names will include build timestamps instead of SNAPSHOT in dist maven . mvn clean from lucene src and solr src now removes lucene dist and solr dist respectively in addition to the build directories already being removed. To populate both lucene dist maven and solr dist maven run from the top level mvn -Pdist -DskipTests deploy To populate only lucene dist maven run from the top level mvn -N -Pdist deploy cd lucene mvn -Pdist -DskipTests deploy cd .. modules mvn -Pdist -DskipTests deploy This patch cuts over ant generate-maven-artifacts to directly use mvn. After applying this patch Maven 2.2.1 and maybe 3.0.X - untested must be installed on your machine in order to run ant generate-maven-artifacts. Other changes in this patch Dropped all use of Maven Ant Tasks. The top-level ant generate-maven-artifacts now works and is the best way to perform this task since it will create a single timestamp for all artifacts this target can also be run from either solr or lucene . Removed the generate-maven-artifacts target from modules build.xml and transferred the responsibility for generating modules maven artifacts to lucene build.xml. The solr src webapp module no longer installs or deploys its empty sources jar. Remote Maven artifact deployment is no longer included in the Ant build - this can be performed by the Maven build. mvn clean no longer removes solr dist or lucene dist for two reasons The Ant build populates dist with things that the Maven build should not remove. Removing just dist maven won t work because I couldn t find a nice simple way to remove a directory just once in the reactor build. The previous patch attempted to do this from the lucene core and solr core modules but that solution was deleting their deployed parent POMs since the reactor build orders the Solr and Lucene parent POMs before the core modules the parent relationship requires this . Left to do Add Ant targets to test the Maven artifacts Backport to branch 3x Hey Guys I ve set this up on some other Apache projects Nutch Tika NetCDF4 and SIS so far and basically it involved 1. moddin g build.xml according to Sonatype s guide see build.xml section https docs.sonatype.org display Repository Sonatype OSS Maven Repository Usage Guide 2. adding pom.xmls for each artifact to be published I ll throw together a patch for this and see if I can t make this process a bit easier. Thanks. Cheers Chris In this patch ant generate-maven-artifacts now works the same as it does on trunk without this patch Ð using maven-ant-tasks Ð except that instead of using the POM templates the POMs provided in the patch are used. ant generate-maven-artifacts now functions properly at the top level from lucene from modules and from solr . Removed all -source.jar and -javadoc.jar generation related functionality from the POMs as well as the dist profile - the Ant build is responsible for putting together the maven artifacts. Removed the POM templates except for the two required to deploy the solr-noggit and solr-commons-csv artifacts from the Ant build. Modified the Maven artifact handling in the Ant build including artifact signing to be correct. Based on feedback from Stevo Slavi http www.mail-archive.com solr-user lucene.apache.org msg45656.html added explicit groupId s to the POMs that didn t have them and added explicit relativePath s to the parent declarations in all POMs. I think this patch is ready to be committed to trunk. I ll post a branch 3x version of this patch tomorrow and then I think the patches on this issue will be complete. I think this patch is ready to be committed to trunk. Well first of all you obviously worked hard on this but we need to think this one through before committing. Can we put this code in a separate project that takes care of maven support for lucene The problem is there are two camps die maven die and maven or die . There will never be consensus. The only way for maven to survive is for the users that care about it to support itself just like other packaging systems such as debian redhat rpm freebsd mac ports etc etc that we lucene don t deal with. They can t continue to whine to people like me who don t give a shit about it to support it and produce its crazy ass complicated artifacts. Instead the people who care about these packaging systems and know how to make them work must deal with them. Personally I really don t like Having two build systems Having one build system ant rely upon the other maven to create release artifacts. Basically the ant build system is our build. I think it needs to be able to fully build lucene for a release without involving any other build systems such as Make or Maven. Can we put this code in a separate project that takes care of maven support for lucene I d rather not. The Lucene project has published Maven artifacts since the 1.9.1 release. I think we should continue to do that. The only way for maven to survive is for the users that care about it to support itself just like other packaging systems such as debian redhat rpm freebsd mac ports etc etc that we lucene don t deal with. OK those are pretty obviously red herrings. Can we concentrate on the actual issue here without dragging in those extraneous things Maven artifacts not those other things have been provided by Lucene since the 1.9.1 release. We obviously do deal with Maven. They can t continue to whine to people like me who don t give a shit about it to support it and produce its crazy ass complicated artifacts. The latest patch on this release uses the Ant artifacts directly. POMs are provided. You know just like it has been since the 1.9.1 release. Instead the people who care about these packaging systems and know how to make them work must deal with them. Um like the patch on this issue is doing Basically the ant build system is our build. I think it needs to be able to fully build lucene for a release without involving any other build systems such as Make or Maven. This patch uses the Ant-produced artifacts to prepare for Maven artifact publishing. Maven itself is not invoked in the process. An Ant plugin handles the artifact deployment. I seriously do not understand why this is such a big deal. Why can t we just keep publishing Maven artifacts You know like we have for the past 15-20 releases. I d rather not. The Lucene project has published Maven artifacts since the 1.9.1 release. I think we should continue to do that. Well I disagree and I definitely don t think we should have 2 build systems. As I stated before I don t think we are going to see consensus on this issue because maven is too imposing on people who don t care about it... it seems maven users are only happy if every project they depend on is itself a maven project. I m a little lost at what this patch introduces that is imposing Ant itself has maven support as part of its trunk code base so its clearly not too imposing for them. Is your issue that this patch introduces things that get in your way somehow with using ant to do builds or are you against committing this due to your general concerns with Maven Is your issue that this patch introduces things that get in your way somehow with using ant to do builds or are you against committing this due to your general concerns with Maven Personally I don t care for maven but I would be bringing up these same objections if we proposed building Redhat RPMs or FreeBSD ports. I would say its best for us to stay out of the business of building packages for various systems instead let the people that work with those packaging systems do it themselves they will do a better job and supporting N build packaging systems is too expensive for us. It makes releasing more complicated to deploy these special packages to the various repositories where they want to be it forces the release manager to know about N packaging systems instead of concentrating on releasing the source code to an open source search engine library which is what we should be doing. Alright I can appreciate your concern. I think comparing Maven to RPM or FreeBSD ports is going a little far but I can understand the point you re making. What if this were committed so that those of us who do understand maven and do like using it could This issue about whether maven artifacts need to then be released or not can be part of a greater discussion as is already taking place . By committing this we then make it easier for someone else outside of the project to create the correct artifacts which are then available from the central maven repository if thats the decision thats made which is also the one you support. What if this were committed so that those of us who do understand maven and do like using it could This issue about whether maven artifacts need to then be released or not can be part of a greater discussion as is already taking place . By committing this we then make it easier for someone else outside of the project to create the correct artifacts which are then available from the central maven repository if thats the decision thats made which is also the one you support. Why does it need to be committed to our trunk why can t it be on e.g. apache-extras and do all of this. This way we can continue to evolve lucene e.g. merge lucene and solr better maintaining only ONE build system and hopefully release more often... if downstream maven support falls behind it falls behind but it shouldn t slow us down. I can appreciate the need to keep our trunk lean and mean and I hope that your assertion that that ll mean more frequent releases holds true. I hope we also shine the light on other code in the trunk to see if it belongs there or could be spun off. I do continue to support the committing of this code but as you rightly pointed out there won t be any consensus on the issue so I ll leave it at that. irony I am amazed at how idea eclipse ant tasks managed to get into trunk. No really emacs is just enough for Lucene development as proven by one of our most seasoned developers. So why the hell are those extras polluting main tree irony I am amazed at how idea eclipse ant tasks managed to get into trunk. I already stated on the maven thread that I have no problem with something like this patch being committed to dev-tools alongside the eclipse and idea support... some others might object but personally I see no problem. we already agreed these folders are simply developer tools and if they start to rot we will just delete them. my problem is with the release process and artifacts... so if we do this we need to be very clear that we are agreeing to put the maven support in dev-tools as developer-support but its not a build system and it has no effect on artifacts... we don t release dev-tools its just checked into svn to help developers. That was basically what I was getting at perhaps not clearly enough . Would a satisfactory compromise be to view this patch as adding development support for maven which is not to do with whether maven artifacts are released or not The discussion about release process artifacts and build system flamewars can then happen outside of this. we need to be very clear .... and it has no effect on artifacts I feel something was missed in the heat of debate. Eg The latest patch on this release uses the Ant artifacts directly. This patch uses the Ant-produced artifacts to prepare for Maven artifact publishing. Maven itself is not invoked in the process. An Ant plugin handles the artifact deployment. I will now try to decipher these quotes. It seems the patch takes the artifacts produced by Ant as a part of our usual and only build process and shoves it down Maven repository s throat along with a bunch of pom-descriptors. Nothing else is happening. Also after everything that has been said I think nobody in his right mind will force anyone to actually use the Ant target in question as a part of release. But it s nice to have it around in case some user-friendly commiter would like to push I d like to reiterate - ant generated artifacts into Maven. Chris well thats the problem with maven it tries to be too many things a dependency management tool a packaging system a build system ... So thats why I said we have to just be very clear about which exact scope of maven we are discussing. If the patch presented here is against dev-tools and is to assist developers who like maven then as I said before I am totally ok with this but I m only speaking for myself. Because maven is so many things and due to Earwin s confusion I think it would be good in general to add a README.txt to dev-tools anyway that states what exactly it is tools to assist lucene solr developers that aren t supported its not bugs if they stop working and will be deleted if they rot . Separately what you said about other code in trunk is totally true... for example its my opinion that there is a lot of code in lucene s contrib that should be moved out to something like apache-extras... currently lucene s contrib has to compile and pass tests or the build fails... there is definitely some stuff in there that is more sandboxy slows down lucene core development but itself isnt getting much maintenance other than devs doing the minimum work to make them pass tests... and we should be keep other options in mind for stuff like this. Thanks but I m not the one confused here. Ant does many things too and we use it in a specific way so I see no problem defining what we intend our maven support to be for. So I m feeling some consensus fortunately I spoke too soon before that if we target this toward being a development tool which is not forced upon any users release managers. Is this okay with you Steven A README.txt describing the scope of the dev-tools sounds appropriate irrespective of what happens here. I certainly wasn t aware of what their maintenance plan was. Steve great work with this patch Ð it takes care of all the previous concerns about our problematic maven support. With this patch we now have testable maven artifacts easy repo distribution ant is still the build system The RM can choose to ignore the generate-maven-artifacts target and let someone else push the artifacts. As with most religious conflicts Ð I hope the resolution is not conversion rather something that lets everyone to live work in peace. 1 for Steve s patch great work and you beat me to it. Final version of trunk patch. Added CHANGES.txt entries converted old solr-tika-parsers- version dependency to tika-parsers-0.8 and changed Solr snapshot artifact generation to use default uniqueVersion value true like Lucene s. branch 3x patch. Maven build works all tests pass ant generate-maven-artifacts works. There is one extra private artifact required in order to build with Java 5 trunk required Java 6 so doesn t have this issue solr contrib clustering lib carrot2-core-3.4.2.jar. The artifact in Maven central repo was compiled with Java 6 but the private artifact was specially compiled with Java 5. I added populating the local repo with this .jar to the bootstrap profile and pulled the POM from the artifact in Maven central to enable transitive dependency resolution. I plan on committing these patches tomorrow. as I said before... i really think the patches need to be against dev-tools i really think the patches need to be against dev-tools Sadly given the way maven works that is not possible. without reinventing a crazy wheel Previous attempts at fakey fakey pom generation have not been so good Ð this approach is better since it is testable and works well with core maven tools. Sorry but introducing a parallel build system somehow such that maven can sneak its way into being a 2nd supported build is not acceptable to me. I feel this will slow down development. Putting it in dev-tools clarifies the level of support i don t want someone telling me I broke the build because these poms dont work if i refactor something. So I am -1 to the patch unless it is in dev-tools. if maven cannot work with its files in dev-tools perhaps a patch to maven itself is needed instead. Perhaps a compromise would be to put them in dev-tools and have an ant task that will copy or symbolically link them when possible to where Maven wants them Developers opposed to maven stuff can choose to never invoke this ant task and thus leave the maven stuff hidden. David sounds perfect to me great idea. Here s my suggestion Let s put the stuff in and do a release. I am pretty sure that we have enough PMC members who want Maven that they can vote on said artifacts w o those who don t want Maven to have to bother even though they are the same artifacts . Also Robert I would specifically ask you once Steve has done the work assuming you are the RM to honestly evaluate whether the production of the artifacts is a burden for you. If you don t want to then I would suggest you do all the main RM work and you let one of us handle producing the artifacts to be released voted on at the same time. If it really is a burden then we can move it to dev-tools or external. And for the record there are more than two camps for Maven besides die maven die and maven or die I personally think distributing artifacts via the central repository and the explicit requirement to list out dependencies and their versions is a great service and significantly increases uptake of artifacts but I can live just fine without the day to day crap that is the result of running mvn XXXX where XXXX is not equal to one of the simpler things like compile or test . Let s not be confused about what we are doing when we say we are supporting Maven. We are just using it to publish artifacts. The only time that should ever need to be run is during a release hence it doesn t slow down us deciding to do a release it just slows down marginally the actual release process. I totally agree we don t want two build systems and I am totally against switching to Maven as a build for all the reasons Robert is parallel tests etc. . All I have ever wanted is reliable published artifacts and I think we have enough support amongst committers to do that and we have strong enough interest in the community to warrant it. If it really is a burden then we can move it to dev-tools or external. Please re-read my comment above. I won t stand for two build systems to deal with during development. If all you care about is reliable published artifacts then its not an issue if the stuff to generate that is in dev-tools or mixed in with the code. I feel this is the maven users trying to sneak maven in as a fully supported build system if not to then sneak it in as the only build system. I will do everything possible to stop this. I m sensitive to the two-build-systems problem. While I like being able to produce local Maven artifacts I agree that mixed build systems for new users will be confusing. I m okay with putting the POMs themselves under dev-tools . But I want the generate-maven-artifacts target to stay in Ant s build not under dev-tools and a new target get-maven-poms added to the top-level build.xml generate-maven-artifacts would depend on get-maven-poms. All pom.xml s would be added to svn ignore entries where they are placed by get-maven-poms. Robert would you agree to keeping generate-maven-artifacts and adding get-maven-poms Steven i totally dont mind if we change the whole way the ant build works with regards to maven to depend on the dev-tools scenario. For example you could have ant maven that 1. copies the stuff from dev-tools wherever it needs to be to make maven happy. 2. does whatever is necessary invoke maven whatever to make the artifacts. Or you could have ant maven that only does part 1 but ant maven-artifacts that does part 2 and depends on part 1. i just want it to be in dev-tools because if i see build.xml in a directory i think its supported by Ant. If i see Makefile in a directory I think its supported by Make pom.xml by Maven and so on. we could also add pom.xml to the svn ignore for all the directories too so that there are no problems with people using the maven framework in dev-tools. A chat on IRC confirms that Robert is okay with my proposal All POMs will be stored under dev-tools maven . generate-maven-artifacts will stay in the Ant build. A new get-maven-poms target will be added to the Ant build to copy the POMs from dev-tools to their target locations in the top-level directory and in each module s subdirectory under lucene solr and modules trunk only . svn ignore properties will be changed to include pom.xml in their target locations. generate-maven-artifacts will depend on get-maven-poms. I ll work up modified patches for trunk and branch 3x along these lines. Patches implementing my proposal to place the Maven POMs in dev-tools maven and add a new top-level Ant target get-maven-poms which is invoked by generate-maven-artifacts. generate-maven-artifacts remains in the top-level build.xml as well as in lucene solr and modules trunk only . I couldn t figure out a way for generate-maven-artifacts under child directories lucene solr and modules to depend on the top-level get-maven-poms target so I instead have generate-maven-artifacts in the child directories explicitly run the get-maven-poms target via the ant task. As a result running generate-maven-artifacts from the top level will cause get-maven-poms to be run once for each child directory but the repeated copy operation doesn t hurt anything and the process is quick. Unless there are objections I will commit this tomorrow. 1 patch looks good. Committed to trunk rev. 1061613 branch 3x rev. 1061612 Uwe pointed out on IRC that the POMs under dev-tools maven have a fixed version and as it now is written ant generate-maven-artifacts no longer respects the maven version property given on the command line. This should be fixed by converting the pom.xml files back into templates and renaming the files accordingly so that the version in the POMs can be modified during ant generate-maven-artifacts. ant get-maven-poms will be responsible for the substitution and renaming in addition to the copying from dev-tools maven that it currently does. This should be fixed by converting the pom.xml files back into templates and renaming the files accordingly so that the version in the POMs can be modified during ant generate-maven-artifacts. Wasn t the fact we were using templates part of the problem that spawned this issue I feel we ve gone full circle here and are now back with maven templates that may or may not be maintained. This should be fixed by converting the pom.xml files back into templates and renaming the files accordingly so that the version in the POMs can be modified during ant generate-maven-artifacts. Wasn t the fact we were using templates part of the problem that spawned this issue I feel we ve gone full circle here and are now back with maven templates that may or may not be maintained. Since the POMs don t represent an official build the number of people using them to build will be small. It is this IMHO rather than whether the POMs are stored as templates under dev-tools maven that will directly affect the quality regularity of their maintenance. In fact I think whether the POMs are stored as templates under dev-tools maven is really a non-issue since they won t be used there. The way it s set up right now if you want to use the POMs to drive a build is that you run ant get-maven-poms to copy them over to their target locations. The way it will be set up once I convert the POMs under dev-tools maven to templates is that you run ant get-maven-poms to copy them over to their target locations as well as naming them to pom.xml and interpolating the desired version. In other words for the end-user the experience will be exactly the same you run ant get-maven-poms and then you can use Maven to build test install artifacts. Templating the POMs will not change usability of them at all so neither the number of people using them nor their effective maintenance will be affected by this change. All that said I agree with you that maintenance is the big deal here and I welcome other suggestions about how to simplify and enable that process. Rather than post a patch attachment for this change I ll put the diffs here. I ll commit these shortly. First all pom.xml files under dev-tools maven will be renamed to pom.xml.template. Second all pom.xml.template files will get this change a representative version of it is given here - different original version for trunk s build.xml of course - version 3.1-SNAPSHOT version version version version Third the top-level build.xml gets this change different version for trunk s build.xml of course -39 10 39 15 sequential target property name version value 3.1-SNAPSHOT target name get-maven-poms description Copy Maven POMs from dev-tools maven to their target locations copy todir . fileset dir basedir dev-tools maven filterset begintoken endtoken filter token version value version filterset globmapper from .template to copy target Committed the template interpolation and renaming patches from my previous comment here to trunk rev. 1062111 and branch 3x rev. r1062112 Since the POMs don t represent an official build the number of people using them to build will be small. It is this IMHO rather than whether the POMs are stored as templates under dev-tools maven that will directly affect the quality regularity of their maintenance. FWIW I ll start using the generated POMs for my builds aside from my use of IntelliJ for day to day development . If there are ever problems then I ll of course report fix them. Thanks so much Steven for creating this alternative build system one that I prefer . Since the POMs don t represent an official build the number of people using them to build will be small. It is this IMHO rather than whether the POMs are stored as templates under dev-tools maven that will directly affect the quality regularity of their maintenance. FWIW I ll start using the generated POMs for my builds aside from my use of IntelliJ for day to day development . If there are ever problems then I ll of course report fix them. Thanks so much Steven for creating this alternative build system one that I prefer . Cool The more the merrier. Bulk close for 3.1
