Lucene Java Site docs
It would be really nice if the Java site docs where consistent with the rest of the Lucene family namely with navigation tabs etc. so that one can easily go between Nutch Hadoop etc. First draft of Forrest http forrest.apache.org based Lucene website. You need Forrest 0.7 to build it. I will try to post a link on my website or the Lucene website for people to view. I copied SOLR s structure and Hadoop s it seems and then brought in the files from the xdocs directory. I then gave all these files a facelift for Forrest. I went through all the pages but I may have missed something so I am looking for some other eyes to help spot errors. One thing that is missing is the link to the Nightly version of the website in the left menu under Site Versions . I am waiting to get setup on zones.apache.org per Doug s email. Once I get that figured out I will put in the proper link. Note that the xdocs directory gets deleted. All significant documentation related files are safely moved to the src site directory structure. I can put a prebuilt version on people.apache.org but I am not sure if Apache would like me to post the URL for consumption to the public. Does anyone know if it is alright to publish a website such as this on people.apache.org under my user account Doug If it is OK I will send out a URL for people to view otherwise download the patch and give it a try. If I don t hear back by next Friday or so the 10th I will commit this patch and make this the official Lucene website. I found a bunch of issues with the previous patch thanks to Steve Rowe so I am withdrawing it. Will post a fixed version soon. I think I have ironed out the issues. I am not going to submit a patch just yet instead I ask that people go review the site at http people.apache.org gsingers site note the breadcrumbs at the top reflect that it is deployed on my site and will be different when on the real site Here is a summary of what will be in the patch commit when we are ready 1. Move xdocs etc. into Forrest common structure under src site as is the case w SOLR and Hadoop 2. xdocs and docs directory are deleted 3. site directory is cleaned out and the new site is put in there 4. New site update instructions will be the same as http wiki.apache.org solr Website Update HOWTO The Site Versions section will eventually have a link to a nightly build of the site as per issue 708 but we are having some infrastructure issues w setting this up for now but that part will be coming soon and I am going to decouple that bug from this one so as to not hold up this one. Please let me know what you think but stick to layout problems and introduced errors i.e. write up a different bug for errors in the documentation that already exist . Thanks Grant Any last comments on the new site I am going to commit these changes within the week per the 4 items laid out in the previous comments and put up the new site. Most likely will do so Sunday night or Monday. To review comment see http people.apache.org gsingers site New site update instructions will be the same as http wiki.apache.org solr Website Update HOWTO We might want a generic version that various subprojects can use. Doug had some comments regarding that in the past Doug wrote We should probably add something like that for the other sites or generically for all sites and link to it. One clarification might be to change go to to connect to or better yet give the cd solr src site command line. Probably each command line should be given in full to avoid confusion as in http wiki.apache.org solr HowToContribute. The recently clarified Apache release policy at http www.apache.org dev release.html states that we should not link to or otherwise refer to nightly builds as releases. Any links to nightly builds should be from a part of the site that s clearly for developers and not for end users. Grant you should remove links to lucene4C dead and add links to Lucene.NET in the Incubator. I see 2 Lucene logos up at the top. I think the smaller one o the left should be the ASF feather. Oh and don t we want tabs for individual sub-projects at the top like on lucene.apache.org today The other projects are listed under others. I pretty much copied SOLR s layout and then moved Lucene Java XDocs into the site structure so I think they are at least consistent with the other sub-projects. Also not sure about the logos. The other sites have our original logo on the left as the Lucene brand and then their logo SOLR Hadoop as the larger icon. Lucene Java has always used the green Lucene logo so I wasn t sure what to do so I had it up there twice. But I like the feather idea so I have changed that On Releases Steve Rowe suggested that I change the menu link to be Downloads which I have done I also added a info on how to get the source code Otis thanks for the Lucene4C info. I wasn t sure on it s status so I left it as is. I have now removed it. Yonik I agree the website update info should be made generic but that is beyond my control for coordinating across projects at this point so I am going to default to copying for now. I would be happy to document help w any top-level coordination to make it easier for any future projects that fall under Lucene I m holding my breath for the Pascal version of Lucene or to come up w a standard template for docs. As always the changes can be seen at http people.apache.org gsingers site you may need to refresh or clear your cache to see the changes OK this has been committed and people.apache.org has been updated but give it 30-60 minutes to update . I will leave this issue open for a few days so people can post any problems w the new site w o creating a new issue. I deprecated ant docs in the build.xml the target still exists but it now does nothing so if anyone has automated dependencies on this they will want to update them . I removed lucene site in favor of keeping the docs directory b c I didn t know how people.apache.org would slurp up the website from a different directory and I didn t want to confuse people updating the website. The instructions at http wiki.apache.org jakarta-lucene HowToUpdateTheWebsite have been modified accordingly. We now have a favicon yipee that is checked in under the site src lucene src site src documentation content xdocs images which is just the L part of the Lucene image file. I have not hooked in code coverage Issue 721 or nightly builds Issue 708 yet but hope to get to that soon. I have not reverted the api docs to the last release but will also try to get to that soon as well. As always let me know of any issues. Future changes should be in the form of patches. Thanks Grant The link to the image asf-logo.gif in the upper left corner is broken mhh same problem at Nutch site . Do you mean the feather logo and how it points to lucene.apache.org instead of apache.org This is a placeholder for now as we need a separate logo for Lucene Java since the green Lucene machine logo is both the logo for the top level project and for Lucene Java. A graphic designer friend of mine has volunteered to produce a couple of variations using the current logo and the newly open sourced Duke logo. I believe the old version of the site had the feather there linking up to the top level Lucene website ... might want to put it back as a placeholder untill we get something better. Lucene Java Hadoop Nutch all pointed to the image http lucene.apache.org java docs images lucene green 150.gif which after this site update no longer exists. I ve fixed the Hadoop site to have its own copy of this image as all of these should so that they re standalone websites. We should probably do the same for Nutch. We should probably do the same for Nutch. I ll do that One thing you might want to fix is the breadcrumb trail. The javascript that generates it automatically inserts an item for each directory in the URL. It s counter-intuitive but in order to coerce the script into generating a link to lucene.apache.org java you need to leave off the java . Here s how I have things set up for the Lucy breadcrumb trail in skinconf.xml trail link1 name apache href http www.apache.org link2 name lucene href http lucene.apache.org link3 name href trail apache and lucene are lowercased so that they will be consistent with the auto-extracted directory names. Compare that third link with what currently exists in the Lucene Java skinconf.xml trail link1 name Apache href http www.apache.org link2 name Lucene href http lucene.apache.org link3 name Java href http lucene.apache.org java trail Nutch Hadoop and Solr could all stand to make this change as well. Thanks I was wondering how to do that Grant Ingersoll Center for Natural Language Processing http www.cnlp.org Read the Lucene Java FAQ at http wiki.apache.org jakarta-lucene LuceneFAQ New site is up and stable. The logo issue can be deferred to a new issue and handled separately. For now the feather and the green Lucene logo are fine I think. Hi What will it take to fix the page at http lucene.apache.org so that Lucene.Net is also on tab ed-link On the 22nd of Nov Otis pointed this out but I still don t see a mention of Lucene.Net. Since Lucene4c is a dead project now replacing it with Lucene.Net is an appropriate thing to do Lucene.Net can use some exposure. The link to Lucene.Net is http incubator.apache.org lucene.net Also as a note the project name is Lucene.Net and not Lucene.NET . Thanks Ð George Hi George This is a top level issue. You should be properly linked under the Lucene Java Related Projects section. I would supply a patch based on http svn.apache.org viewvc lucene site and then somehow get the attention of one of the TLP committers PMC members Doug Yonik . Good luck Grant Thanks for the quick response Grant Unfortunately I am not familiar with forrest which is how I believe the patch must be generated. If I supply the required text changes can someone take care of making the changes If not can someone point me to where I can learn about forrest I believe Doug does have commit privilege. Regards Ð George PMC members maintain the top-level site. Please provide a patch. Thanks. Hi Dough Attached is a patch to add Lucene.Net to TLP of Lucene site. Thanks. Ð George Aroush Applied thanks George 
