Bring Hunspell for Lucene into analysis module
Some time ago I along with Robert and Uwe wrote an Stemmer which uses the Hunspell algorithm. It has the benefit of supporting dictionaries for a wide array of languages. It seems to still be being used but has fallen out of date. I think it would benefit from being inside the analysis module where additional features such as decompounding support could be added. 1 We now use Lucene Hunspell for a few customer deployments and it would be great to have it the analysis module since it supports some 70-80 languages out of the box and gives great flexibility since you can edit - or augment - the dictionaries to change behaviour and fix stemming bugs. As a side benefit I also expect that when the Ooo dictionaries get more use in Lucene users will over time be able to extend and improve the dictionaries and contribute their changes back benefiting also Ooo users. Patch with a port of the code. Because most of the dictionaries are L GPL I ve written my own dumb stupid dictionary for test purposes. During testing I discovered a long standing bug to do with recursive application of rules This has now been fixed. Code now is also version aware as required by the CharArray data structures. Thanks Chris for adding this to Lucene Analysis module. We did lots of work on Google Code so it should really be in Lucene except the dictionaries. We should only add links to web pages where to get them. ...so it should really be in Lucene except the dictionaries. how is OpenOffice dealing with those dictionaries since they are now an ASF incubation project Maybe the dictionaries are under ASL eventually how is OpenOffice dealing with those dictionaries since they are now an ASF incubation project Maybe the dictionaries are under ASL eventually Bizarrely from what I can see in the OpenOffice SVN they are still under their original license. I guess thats something they will have to sort out during incubation. I don t see the licenses changing since the dictionaries tend to be developed by national language organisations but maybe the ASF will negotiate. Bizarrely from what I can see in the OpenOffice SVN they are still under their original license. I don t think we should read too much into that text file its not even obvious which of the many dictionaries in that folder it applies to I know for a fact that some of the files in there are NOT GPL for example the en US dictionary http svn.apache.org viewvc incubator ooo trunk main dictionaries en README en US.txt revision 1162288 view markup Okay good spotting. so how do we want to proceed Do we want to bring some of the dictionaries in Should we address that in a later issue once its become clearer in OO what they re doing I don t think we should do anything with the dictionaries ever its much better to make small test dictionaries that are actually more like unit tests and test certain things like what you did in the patch. Patch now includes a package.html linking to a PDF about hunspell and suggesting dictionaries are sourced from the OpenOffice wiki. Committing tomorrow. Committed revision 1167467. Reopening for 3x backport. 3x back port Committed revision 1167505. Is there a JIRA for adding HunspellStemFilterFactory to Solr Nope its on my mental TODO but go for it. SOLR-2769 Bulk close after release of 3.5
