Error in FSDirectory if java.io.tmpdir incorrectly specified
A user of the JAMWiki project http jamwiki.org reported an error with the following stack trace SEVERE Unable to create search instance usr share tomcat5 webapps jamwiki-0.3.4-beta7 test base search indexen java.io.IOException Cannot create directory temp at org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.init FSDirectory.java 171 at org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.getDirectory FSDirectory.java 141 at org.apache.lucene.store.FSDirectory.getDirectory FSDirectory.java 117 at org.jamwiki.search.LuceneSearchEngine.getSearchIndexPath LuceneSearchEngine.java 318 The culprit is that the java.io.tmpdir property was incorrectly specified on the user s system. Lucene could easily handle this issue by modifying the FSDirectory.init method. Currently the code uses the index directory if java.io.tmpdir and org.apache.lucene.lockDir are unspecified but it could use that directory if those values are unspecified OR if they are invalid. Doing so would make Lucene a bit more robust without breaking any existing installations. This sounds like a very similar issue to some past discussion about the path specified when opening a directory and what to do if it doesn t exist ie create it or throw an error ... in general i think it would be unadvisable to assume that if java.io.tmpdir refers to a bogus directory that we should use the index directory because that could lead to situations were typo result in errors silently being ignored to the possible extend of index corruption. consider for a moment two lucene based apps running in two seperate JVM instances on the same machine attempting to use hte same index directory one with a properly set java.io.tmpdir and one without Ð they will most likely crash hard because they would wilently use completley differnet directories for managing locks . As with the discussion about index directories that don t exist applications that want to silenetly assume that a bogus java.io.tmpdir property should result in using the index directory for lock files can get that behavior if they want by testing java.io.tmpdir themselves and explicitly constructing a SimpleFSLockFactory on the directory they want to use but Lucene should not make any assumptions about what the client application wants in the case of garbage input. I m not sure if the user specified the wrong directory is necessarily the correct situation here. Unless a user specifically sets the org.apache.lucene.lockDir property they aren t really choosing the lock directory location - Lucene uses the java.io.tmpdir property as a default without any input from the user. A user who runs into this problem will see only something like Cannot create directory temp in their logs and then has to go through the source code to figure out why anything is trying to create that directory. The code already defaults to using the index directory for lock files which the user DID specify if the org.apache.lucene.lockDir property and the java.io.tmpdir properties are not set - it doesn t seem like much of a stretch to just modify the code to also use the index directory if at least the java.io.tmpdir property is invalid. Newer versions of Lucene since 2.1 now store the lock file in the index directory by default.
