clean up build files so contrib tests are run more easily
Per mailing list discussion... http www.nabble.com Tests 2C-Contribs 2C-and-Releases-tf3768924.html a10655448 Tests for contribs should be run when ant test is used existing test target renamed to test-core Whileworking on this i fixed a few general issues with the way some contribs could be built tested easily from their own directory but not as part of hte larger build-contrib test-contrib targets items included in this patch... 1 change the main test target to test-core and add a new test target which depends on test and test-contrib 2 change test.classpath reference to include core test classes which some contrib test classes have compile dependencies on 3 make xml-query-parser s dependency on the queries contrib more standardized so the queries jar is forcably built no matter how xml-query-parser is built 4 fix MemoryIndexTest so it can find the input files it s looking at regardless of what directory the test is run from. 5 make the generate-test-reports target work both for individual contribs as well as for hte project as a whole 6 make contrib-crawl fail by default if the target fails for any of the contribs so build-contrib now fails immediately if a contrib fails to build 7 make test-contrib delay any failure until all contribs have been tested Ð this makes it possible to run ant generate-test-reports after a failed ant test and see all of the failures. Note that i only modified contribs in cases where they had problems related to their expectations about being built or tested in a specific directory ... as it stands there are still some test errors failures... a TestPrecedenceQueryParser has 3 failures b spellchecker has one test failure i believe there is already a patch in another issue c contrib db bdb has dependencies on a native library a and b are related to functionality ... i have no qualms about them being broken and preventing builds until decisisons are made about how to fix them correctly. c on the other hand raises some interesting questions should we skip those tests unless the native library is present ... i m not even sure how to do that available on a classpath resource i understand java.library.path i don t . Are committers preparing official releases expected to have those native libraries in order to sign off on the build I m happy to commit this as is and let the nightly builds be broken until we deal with this ... but it would be nice if at least one other person could try it out an verify that it works for them as well. The patch applies cleanly on my trunk working copy using patch -p0 885 patch unix . Sure enough ant test-contrib fails in the trunk. The memory index test was taking quite a bit of time. Also in contrib surround ant test fails so I ll have further look at how to better combine contrib surround build.xml and the trunk build.xml and related files. What is the preferred way to run the unit tests for a single contrib From the trunk build.xml or from the contrib build.xml Paul i can t reproduce the problem you describe.. Also in contrib surround ant test fails ... using this patch i see all 65 tests in 3 test classes in the org.apache.lucene.queryParser.surround.query package pass regardless of whether I run ant test from the top level or from contrib surround ... can you attach a log of exactly hat you re doing when you get failures I m also not sure i understand your question... What is the preferred way to run the unit tests for a single contrib From the trunk build.xml or from the contrib build.xml ....from the main build.xml ant test-contrib will run the tests for all constribs ... if you only want to run test for an individual contrib the only way i know to do that is from the contrib s directory ... your question of preferred way suggests there is another way to run tests for a single contrib and i m not sure what you re referring to. One final note testing this patch on a differnet computer today i m getting some additional contrib test errors in org.apache.lucene.gdata.server.registry and org.apache.lucene.gdata.servlet.handler i thought i was using 1.5 yesterday but perhaps not . still need to investigate if these are legitimate code failures or problems triggered by how the tests are run. Paul i can t reproduce the problem you describe.. That s good news especially with you having more tests pass. I may have to restart from a fresh checkout instead of using my working copy. As for the preferred way of running single contrib tests a better way to phrase my question would probably be What facilities of the lucene build.xml can be used imported in the build.xml of a single contrib I remember creating the build.xml file for surround by starting from the lucene build.xml. That means there is probably some redundancy left in the current build.xml of surround with respect to the lucene build.xml and I d like to remove that redundancy. Ok. Two mistakes by me. Turns out I had made an addition that would not compile and then the tests won t work either. Also the build.xml file of surround is just about as empty as possible so that is no problem either. Sorry for the noise. revised patch addresses two issues... 1 the gadta tests had similar issues to contrib memory Ð assumptions about CWD for purposes of opening files. i generalized the solution i put in for contrib memory to create a new lucene.common.dir system property when making the junit call so that tests would always have a root directory to reference when opening files. 2 i added a new SanityLoadLibrary class to the contrib db bdb test directory ... it s not a unity test but a minimal java app for generateing an error if the native library needed for the package can t be loaded Ñ if it doesn t exit cleanly tests for that package will be skipped. NOTE TestPrecedenceQueryParser still has test failures which occur regardless of how the test is run Ñ i m making no attempt to fix those since they are not related to the build system. I m comfortable committing this as is in a few days but feedback is always appreciated. in particular it would be nice if someone with the BDB native library installed could sanity test that the build system correctly runs the test in the presence of that library. Hoss This looks good On my system Win XP all contribs except db since I don t have BDB installed build fine and the only failing tests are in TestPrecedenceQueryParser as you mentioned already. spell and surround are fine too. A comment about the PrecendenceQueryParser PQP I took a look into the commit history and found the following two comments Minor tweaks to the new proposed query parser. There are still some failing tests as some were added to show expectations not yet met. The main missing piece is getting NOT precedence accounted for. and move PrecedenceQueryParser to contrib misc until the kinks are worked out Both comments are from early 2005. Since then nobody has changed the code so I think we should exclude PQP from the build temporarily until someone starts working on it again PQP was a hack I made long ago to mainly show how QP could be possibly improved. I m fine with that class being removed altogether or the failing tests commented out. I don t use that class personally. Committed revision 542769. ...this included two minor tweaks to the bdb stuff from what was in the last patch... 1 fixed property name from no-dbd-lib to no-bdb-lib 2 modified both the bdb and bdb-je tests to use the temp directory specified as a system prop when the junit task is run to keep them from polluting the root directory. Officially reopening this bug as i have discovered that it causes the build to fail on java 1.4 the problem is that the contrib-crawl logic used by build-contrib and test-contrib is ignorant of the skip 1.5 contribs logic used in the javadocs it is a javadoc specific property and the individiaul 1.5 contribs ie gdata assume that ify ou are trying to build them you must have 1.5. patch is already ready to make the property more global and to make the targets in the gdata build.xml act as NOOPs echoing a message based on the value ... just doing some more testing now before committing. Committed revision 543257. Compilation and test of the entire tree should work fine now under 1.4 ... note that gdata doesn t actually run it s tests even under 1.5 because of LUCENE-899 ... but this problem predates any work done for this issue so i m not going to look into it at this time as it relates to bugs in a specific contrib and not in changes made to facilitate the building testing of contribs. Looking at the current build r545324 it looks like the some contrib failures are getting swallowed. Things like lucli are throwing errors along the lines of subant home barronpark smparkes work lucene trunk common-build.xml 366 srcdir home barronpark smparkes work lucene trunk contrib lucli src test does not exist but these don t make it back up to the top level status. It looks like the current state will bubble up junit failures but maybe not build failures There are some flag files being created but they aren t checking this step I don t think. the flag files are only used when running the tests i created them so that reports could be generated on all tests even if one failure occured in one contrib . By default the contrib-crawl target will fail if any of the subant calls fail - test-contrib overrides this hence it needs the flag files but build-contrib does not so i m not sure why you would get an error like that. any failure from any contrib in should fail build-contrib. Ah I see. Should then test-contrib depend on build-contrib rather than compile-test That will flush out these issues and as a side effect immediately break the build ... Whoops the primary failure was because I wasn t up to date. Actually making test-contrib rely on build-contrib doesn t fix it either. It s test-compile-contrib if you will that fails and rather being contrib-crawled that s only done as the target of test in each contrib directory at which point it s running in the protected contrib-crawl. Easy enough to lift this loop into another target e.g. build-contrib-test. And that will start surfacing errors which I can work through. I ve got patches. Want them on this JIRA or another This patch file removes the swallowed failures by doing more of the build steps out of the guarded loop that only detects junit failures not others . In addition the patch need to create and svn add A contrib wordnet src test A contrib similarity src test A contrib lucli src test This makes it possible to actually run the gdata-server tests which were not running before. I have seen one case where it hung but maybe that was a fluke. Renaming the patch to make it clear it adds to the previous rather than replaces. Reopening to get these tweaks in. Steven Since changes with this issue number have already been committed and recorded in the CHANGES.txt file prior to the 2.2 branch and since i m not certain these additional changes will make it into the 2.2 branch not my call to make i think it would be better to open a new linked issue with a unique number for tracking purposes. I ll take care of that now.
