User Developer Documentation
- quotes from user s on why they used it. - better project docs including checkstyle and clover reports and changelog - examples showing how to configure logging and why you may want to - Links on HttpClient to sister projects such as Slide Cactus and Latka to show where how it s being used.Created an attachment id 6182 threading docs and some other fixes Attached is the latest version of the threding docs that I have been working on. ÊIt s a little rough but it s a starting point. Anyone want to expand on this MikeI was thinking about writing an SSL guide unless there s someone else who wants to take on this duty. OlegSorry it s taken so long to look at this simplek things first. Oleg an SSL article would be brilliant but unfortunately I don t know enough about it to write one. If you were to jot down some notes I could write up the doc from them at least as a draft. Mike I took a look at your threading article and it looks good a few rephrasings may help and I ll look into that tomorrow but I m not enough of a word smith to do much with it. I m not sure about some of the other changes in the patch though most of it looks like minor spelling adjustments etc but there is one change to the authentication article that I think is incorrect. In the subsection Preemtive Authentication your patch adds a note that preemptive authentication can be enabled on a per method basis by calling someMethod.setDoAuthentication true Êhowever from what I can tell setDoAuthentication controls whether or not HttpClient tries to authenticate at all and doesn t affect preemptive authentication. More relevant seems to be the method HttpState.setAuthenticationPreemptive boolean value .Adrian Any assistance on phrasing would be helpful. Even though I wrote it I find the wording a little awkward. You are quite right about preemptive authentication. That part of the patch should be removed. Thanks MikeAdrian I will happily provide most of the content for the SSL guide. Unfortunately it may take me a while though as I am quite busy doing those unpleasant things called earning a living. The consulting business appears to be picking up a bit here in Europe and my bosses occasionally want me to get some stuff done in return for keeping me on their payroll . I would really appreciate if could just massage the article language- and style-wise correct my Russki English and make sure the content is actually readable and clear enough for an average HttpClient user. I have a notoriously bad record of writing documentation. As far as preemptive authentication goes it can be controlled on a per HTTP state basis. The HttpState class reads the default value from the httpclient.authentication.preemtive upon initialization. Once the HttpState object is instantiated the preemptive authentication can be activated deactivated with the following method HttpState setAuthenticationPreemtive boolean OlegCreated an attachment id 6473 Updated threading guide. Created an attachment id 6474 Slightly tweaked version of Mike s assorted changes. I ve attached both the new version of Mike s threading guide that clarifies some of the wording but is mostly untouched as well as a new patch file with the assorted changes that came along with it slightly tweaked and in particular removed the changes regarding pre-emptive authentication. I ll go back and look at the authentication docs now to see if they need updating.Created an attachment id 6475 Update for authentication guide to provide more detail to preemptive authentication. These look good to me. I will apply these patches if there are no objections. MikeMike No objections from me. I think you should also re-tag the content of xdoc directory after having committed the patches as these changes should make it into beta-1. OlegCan do.Docs committed and re-tagged.Created an attachment id 6597 Update for the redirect docs to include information about the special redirect types. The authentication and redirection docs managed to slip through the cracks. They have now been committed. There seems to be two items missing that prevent us from closing this bug 1. Quotes from user s on why they used it I ll post under a new thread to the mailing list calling for these soon . Currently we have a list of applications that used HttpClient but not why they did. 2. Clover reports. Clover is a commercial product that provides free licenses for opensource projects upon request. There was a discussion about how to go about requesting this on commons-dev a while back but I m not sure what the outcome was I don t recall seeing one . Should we contact the PMC for approval or just go ahead and request a license I d really like to get Clover up and running so we can do a review of the test cases.Adrian I would just quickly consult the rest of the Commons crowd by posting a message to the jakarta-commons-dev. If no satisfactory answer is given in a timely manner we should approach the vendor on our own. OlegCommons crowd consulted - they passed me onto community apache.org. Community apache.org doesn t seem to have anything to say on the matter so I ve gone with the historical approach of just requesting a license ourselves. We should hear back from them in the next day or so. I ve already received an email from their tech support saying they d be happy to provide a free license to HttpClient if I just filled out the appropriate form on the website. Having now filled out that form I don t expect there ll be any issues.We now have a license for clover to use with HttpClient HttpClient committers can email me for details on how to get their hands on it . To add the report to the website we need to specify it as a report in the project.xml. However it means that we have to specify every report we want to run so we won t automatically get any new reports that are added to maven s default setup. I have listed all the reports we currently have in the project.xml. Also for clover to work you must run the unit tests in a forked JVM as the results are only written out when the JVM exits. I ve added the property that achieves this to project.properties but if you rebuild httpclient using maven a lot during development you may wish to override this in your own build.properties which takes precedence . The line to add is maven.junit.fork false Also the clover plugin seems to have major issues on Windows particularly when there is a space in the path to the HttpClient sources. I m not sure if this has been fixed in maven s CVS yet or not. So do considering these down sides do we wish to add clover to maven s default run or should we a. add a link to the report via navigation.xml and run the clover report manually then upload it to the site. b. Not put the clover report on the website and just use it when required. c. Go find a fix for the problems and use an updated version of the clover plugin when generating the site what happens to anyone who is still using the last stable release of maven or before . d. Something completely different. Adrian I apologize that your efforts to promote the use of clover have so far enjoyed only a lukewarm support from our side. You have the right to feel abandoned. I believe I have some explaining to do. I feel 100 test case coverage may be simply unattainable at this point. Yes it should be our goal but it is not the only goal that we have. I think your efforts can be better spent by looking into SimpleHttpConnection redesign for instance. I would feel by far better if had a way to reliably test proxy support instead of bringing up the formal test case coverage level from 50 to 51 . So I am perfectly comfortable with plan B Not put the clover report on the website and just use it when required for the time being. OlegWith the decision to leave the clover report off the website at least for now this bug can now be closed as fixed. The improvements to test cases is really a separate issue.
