Developer documentation
Provide more example code in CVS and give a clear link on the website. A walkthrough of the API. Documenntation suitable for new users.Need to provide a walkthrough of the API standard practices tuned for a new user. Example code is handled under another bug.This looks like what I m working on so reassigning to myself.Created an attachment id 4935 Updated authentication guide and rearranged side menu to pave the way for the extra documentation to be added. Please don t redeploy the site just yet commiting the files is optional as I need to create a few more files to satisfy the index yet.Created an attachment id 4991 Latest user docs. Includes a simple getting started tutorial. Created an attachment id 5226 Latest revision of docs. I ve attached the latest revision of docs for review this is now very nearly complete with just the character encoding guide to be added. Links have been checked with the maven link-check plugin but the docs haven t been fully proof read yet.This looks good. Nice work I think it s probably time to commit this so we can go through it and fix the little things typos etc . I will go ahead and commit this tonight unless I hear some objections.   Just one objection you should use the latest version that I m about to attach. It includes the final document for this installment the character encodings tutorial.Created an attachment id 5236 Latest version with all documents completed. Note a patch file is included in the zip. Created an attachment id 6529 Cookie configuration guide. Created an attachment id 6530 Corrections to troubleshooting.xml and adds cookie guide to the menu. I ve attached a new Cookie guide with some simple information about cookie management in HttpClient. It would be good if someone more familiar with Cookies could review it at some point. Also attached is a patch to troubleshooting.xml to tell people to always include the wire trace log as opposed to if they think it s useful . The patch also adds the cookie guide to navigation.xml.The cookie docs and the updated troubleshooting have been committed. I love Specifying the Specification MikeCreated an attachment id 6599 Cookies guide minor corrections Folks I have finally started working on the SSL guide. Meanwhile could you please take a look at those correction I have made to the Cookie guide There are some factual discrepancies in it. Since the Cookie guide has already been deployed at the HttpClient site we should not wait too long with its revision and update. OlegOleg Changes to the cookie spec look good to me. Thanks for checking that over. We should definitely commit and redeply the website as soon as it s next convienient. There are now a few changes waiting to be deployed.Thanks Adrian. Patch committed. Welcome to the Fellowship by the way OlegCreated an attachment id 6644 SSL Guide take 1 Adrian please find the first draft of the SSL guide attached above. It s still quite raw but it should be good enough so you could take it over. If you need additional input please let me know Oleg.Oleg This looks like a good start. The only major thing I noticed is in regard to JCE. JCE is not required to use SSL with HttpClient. I belive JCE is only used by NTLM. MikeOk point taken. I ll make the corrections required. Any other comments OlegCreated an attachment id 6682 SSL Guide take 2 SSL Guide committed.Created an attachment id 6775 Patch to SSL guide to clean things up a little. As promised I ve attached a patch that cleans up the SSL docs a little - no changes to the conceptual meaning. If noone objects I ll commit the changes in the morning.Looks good to me. Go ahead and commit the patch OlegPatch committed.I think this bug can be closed now and individual bugs opened for any further docs. There s starting to be too much information here on too many different topics to keep track of.
