Logger Category names don t follow common pattern
The Wire class uses two loggers named unexpected. The org.apache.commons. prefix is missing - so you can t mute all debug level statements with a one-liner in you log4j.properties for example   log4j.logger.org.apache.commons.httpclient INFO You have to add this too   log4j.logger.httpclient INFO Please prepend the org.apache.commons. before both names. Cheers Christian code class Wire     public static Wire HEADER WIRE new Wire LogFactory.getLog httpclient.wire.header          public static Wire CONTENT WIRE new Wire LogFactory.getLog httpclient.wire.content code http svn.apache.org viewcvs.cgi jakarta commons proper httpclient trunk src java org apache commons httpclient Wire.java rev 155418 view markupThe wire log is not bound to a particular class and therefore does not use package prefixing. I don t see what is so bad about putting a second line into your configuration. Especially since the change you requested would force all other users that have enabled their wire log to change their configurations. just my 0.02   RolandI think this is fair enough a request. It has bothered me in the past as well I and suggest the following category names   org.apache.commons.httpclient.Wire.header   org.apache.commons.httpclient.Wire.content Put the change in the change log and documentation to keep other users happy.In my opinion such a change would constitute an API change and should be done no sooner than 3.1 or possibly 4.0 release Oleg In reply to comment 2 1 I like clean patterns. In reply to comment 3 In my opinion such a change would constitute an API change ... Humm at least the Java API doesn t change by the name refactoring. You still use the public instances HEADER WIRE and CONTENT WIRE. Thus it won t lead into compile problems. It is Logging API change though - but it ll produce in most cases a deprecated line in the logging configuration file only which doesn t hurt . I mean when shipping a product that uses HttpClient you normally have the both lines like   log4j.logger.org.apache.commons.httpclient WARN   log4j.logger.httpclient WARN The first will take over the second is ignored and should be replaced by   log4j.logger.org.apache.commons.httpclient.Wire WARN Cheers ChristianCreated an attachment id 16370 Proposed patch I would also consider this an API change. 3.1 or 4.0 is the right place from my point of view. MikeOdi would you object if this one got resolved in 4.0 not 3.1 OlegMakes sense not to change this kind of things in a minor release.Fixed in SVN trunk Oleg
