Support for NTLM authentication
A late write in for this would be support for NTLM authenticatin as well as basic and digest. Obviously non-trivial but it would be a very big feature. Adrian Sutton Software Engineer Ephox Corporation www.ephox.com http www.ephox.com I ve just noticed the target milestone for this and HTTPCLIENT-46 plug-in authentication modules has been moved up to 2.0 alpha from 2.1 Final. I would be interested in getting an idea of how many others are interested in supporting these protocols as I have a large client who requires NTLM authentication so I will be implementing it fairly soon. Unfortunately I have fairly tight time constraints on this fully completed tested and shipping within in the next month or so and so I am not able to wait long for plug in authentication module support or spend huge amounts of time making the patch suitable for inclusion in HttpClient s standard CVS repository. So how much interest is there in having NTLM authentication and is someone who is already familiar with the inner workings of HttpClient prepared to step up and add plug in authentication sooner rather than later Created an attachment id 3233 Zip file of patch and new files to provide NTLM support. The attached patch provides NTLM support to HttpClient through two new classes NTLM.java which handles the NTLM protocol and NTCredentials.java which provides a Credentials class that can specify username password host and domain. The patch also includes unit tests for NTLM based upon those for Digest and basic authentication. Note that one of the existing test cases which tested multiple authentication schemes needed to be changed from asking for NTLM and basic to Unsupported and basic as we now support NTLM.Patch applied. Thanks Adrian Since NTLM authentication does not use the concept of realms I d previously just used the default credentials. This is incredibly annoying and limiting if you re using HttpMultiClient to connect to multiple NTLM authenticated servers. These two attached patches change the NTLM support to first attempt to get the Host name from the Host header and use that to get credentials and then fall back to the default credentials. The second patch updates the test cases to test this new feature and generally work better with the change.Created an attachment id 3307 Adds a check for credentials specific to the host for NTLM authentication. Created an attachment id 3308 Updates the test suite to test the new host based NTLM authentication. These patches have been integrated into CVS and are working well. This bug can now be closed.
