migrate to commons-codec Base64
Commons Codec is now the authoritative source for Base64 functionality. The Base64 in HttpClient is now deprecated and should be removed in 2.1. This will also add a new dependancy for HttpClient on the commons-codec package.Created an attachment id 7321 Patch 1 If when we make the move here s a patch that moves Base64 and URL encoding to codec.Created an attachment id 9600 Patch 2 With Codec 1.2 officially released I think it is time we finally migrated to Commons Codec framework. I want to see those warning messages finally go away Mike I took liberty of creating a new patch as the one you posted a while ago was outdated by now. I hope you do not mind I was at the client basically to watch another fella do all the work and I did not know what to do with my idle time there . OlegOleg No worries. I m glad this one is finally moving forward. I think the patch is missing a few things though. Base64 is still there and EncodingUtil.formUrlEncode needs to make use of the codec. Other than that it looks good to me. Now that we re making this move to codec what do we want to do about the codec jar. Do we want to add it to CVS ala commons-logging MikeMike good catch. I ll make the corrections necessary before committing the patch. As to committing commons-codec.jar to the CVS I do not have a strong opinion on that. At the very least we should be consistent. We should either add commons-codec.jar or remove commons-logging.jar. I can live with either scenario. Any votes for or against keeping dependencies in the CVS OlegPlease keep libraries inside CVS. This ensures you have the right version of the library that matches the code. Getting a certain version of an external library may become very difficult later in time Sure there is Maven but still I strongly discourage removing referenced libraries from the source tree.Created an attachment id 9631 Patch 3 The patch incorporates corrections suggested by Mike. If nobody complains loudly I ll commit the patch tomorrow around 20 00GMT OlegPatch committed. I have also updated the build script and added commoms-codec.jar to the lib directory Oleg
