Move document type definition out of repository.xml
Hello Here at Cognifide Przemo and I we got a bit confused while trying to solve JCR-202. There was a need to modify repository.xml configuration file and it s DTD and we have found that there are different repository.xml files within trunk that differs this definition. I think that it is a good idea to extract this definition to a one separate file and maybe .xsd instead of .dtd and then link it in other files. It would be also nice to put this file somewhere on the Web and reference it via URL. I am waiting for your comments. Regards Jan 1 Sounds good even though I d really like to revisit the whole configuration system to leverage an IoC container or something similar. Would you like to contribute a patch for extracting the DTD The Jackrabbit version number should probably be included in the DTD URL and we could release the DTDs either on jackrabbit.apache.org assuming they won t be repeatedly requested by Jackrabbit installations or other tools without manual confirmation on the Apache release mirrors or on the Maven repositories. I attached patch with the simplest resolution. If you think it should be XSD instead of XML that is not a problem. Just say and it ll be done. I assumed that the file will be visible under http jackrabbit.apache.org 1.1 repository.dtd and I find it the most natural choice. About access to this file - I think that editor tools like Eclipse will want to access it in order to support code completion and so on but it should not cause bandwidth problems if that was your case. Thanks the patch looks good I m targetting it for Jackrabbit 1.2.Hello I am currently finishing implementation of JCR-202 and I created new repository.xml files here and there for tests. Should I keep DTD inside each or replace it with URL mentioned above DTDs externalized in revision 486393. The current DTD is now available at http jackrabbit.apache.org dtd repository-1.2.dtd in preparation for the 1.2 release. The published DTD does not yet contain the JCR-202 changes I ll add them separately. There s also an earlier DTD at http jackrabbit.apache.org dtd repository-1.0.dtd that documents the configuration format of Jackrabbit 1.0 and 1.1. Note that Jackrabbit 1.2 will still be fully backwards compatible with configurations that use the 1.0 dtd. Rationale for using a different DTD URL It s better if the version number is included in the file name and not only in the directory. This way you can easily determine the contents of a DTD file even after you ve downloaded it.
