Reduce number of compiler warning by adding Override and generics where appropriate
Add Override and generics where possible to reduce the number of warnings issued by the compiler.Fixed at revision 905699 I m wondering if it s really worth adding all those Override lines. My opinion is that it just obfuscates the code without helping. Similar to adding final everywhere. To ensure the code is correct you anyway need automated tests. I m not saying that the commit should be rolled back just wondering what others think. I would favor disabling the compiler warning for missing Override. There is probably more to it than just some syntax. For the Override it helps the compiler ensure correct extension. It is much simpler fixing issues occurring at compile time than to write tests and try to find issues at test run time. Second it helps identifying overwritten methods when looking at the source without an IDE e.g. by just skimming SVN with a browser. For final It serves AFAICT two purposes. One it helps preventing overwriting values inadvertedly thus going into the find bugs at compile time category as the Override annotation. The other use it might help compilers and vms optimizie the variable though this may be of less importance nowadays with advanced compilers and modern VMs . So I think it is a good thing to have them. Override is IMHO quite useful and I don t think we have too many cases of those most of the commit was about generics . Having too many Override s around can actually be a good sign of a potential target for refactoring composition over inheritance .If a super class probably due to a library upgrade removes a method which your code overrides without Override your code will compile fine just your method won t get called anymore. This may lead to very subtle and probably hard to find bugs. With Override your code wont compile anymore immediately directing you to the problem. I think the clutter of Override is very low compared to the value added. I m not saying that the commit should be rolled back just wondering what others think. i m very happy with the changes made by michael and i consider this kind of minor code improvements and cleanups as very valuable. the Override lines never bothered me and they actually are a reasonable replacement for my see xzw-method comments that i tried to add consistently in order to force the ide to inform me about changes made to super-classes such as michael pointed out above yes i use to have javadoc problems reported as error Ok then I will use Override as well. But not final .
