Use only the standard Maven repository for dependencies
The JCR API jars are now available in the standard Maven repository see http jira.codehaus.org browse MAVENUPLOAD-1050. We could thus remove the dependency on the Day repository as requested in http jira.codehaus.org browse MEV-453. Could someone David confirm that the license interpretation at http jira.codehaus.org browse MAVENUPLOAD-1050 is correct I m especially concerned about the following sentence in clause 2 License for the Distribution of Compliant Implementations No license is granted hereunder for any other purpose including for example modifying the Specification other than to the extent of your fair use rights or distributing the Specification to third parties . Note especially the part about distributing the Specification to third parties . BTW this might also interfere with Jackrabbit distributing jcr-1.0.jar within both jackrabbit-server.war and jackrabbit-jca.rar. The Day Spec License is the broadest possible license allowed under the JSPA use of this template is enforced by Sun legal as part of the review process prior to publication of the Specification . The JCP requires that this license be enforced through at a minimum a click-through licensing agreement. In other words that license can only be used for personal experimentation and distribution of bundles that include an independent implementation that passes the TCK. Apache Maven would require a separate license in order to distribute the JCR jar file to third parties. The CCLA that Day signed for Apache does not include the Specification and its associate API. JSPA rules do not allow us to transfer such a broad license to Apache due to the API compatibility restrictions. However Day is able to extend additional license terms on its own that would not change the specification agreement. For example Day could upload the JCR API jar file to the Maven repository with a license addendum that states it may also be redistributed unmodified to third parties for the purpose of building compiling Java software provided that further redistribution of the JCR API jar file such as when distributed with the result of that compilation is only allowed under the terms of the Day Specification License. In any case it is not okay for anyone other than Day to upload the jar to a repository. All of the contribution agreements that feed IP into the JSR 170 283 process are funneled through the Spec Lead so it is safer to have the spec lead perform any actions that might lead to copyright patent issues down the line. Those would be issues generated by the other EG members Day does not have any such issues of its own . Apache should probably ask the JCP to add Maven-style distribution as an additional optional term to the standard template. That would allow Day to adopt the new term when 283 is published. Resolving as fixed since after the Maven 2 upgrade JCR-332 we only refer to the javax.jcr jcr-1.0 POM in the central Maven 2 repository. This POM correctly mentions the Day spec license and for now the user needs to manually download the API jar. It would be nice to see the jar downloaded automatically from the Maven repository but since it s outside our hands and since no more changes in Jackrabbit are required to make that happen I think it s appropriate to mark this issue as resolved.
