Improve and promote spi-logger
The spi-logger is very useful for debugging an SPI implementation. However it only supports the RepositoryService interface. Other SPI interfaces are not supported. Also writing log information as string seems a bit restrictive to me. Finally it is not included in the jackrabbit-spi package which introduces an additional dependency for debugging. I therefore suggest - Add support for the other major SPI interfaces - Replace the current way of logging a String to a Writer instance by a more versatile mechanism i.e. clients have to provide an interface which consumes more structured log data . - Provide some default implementation for the above mechanism i.e. writing to a file writing to a slf4j based logger writing to the console... - Promote this project to jackrabbit-spi sounds reasonable. do you already have something at hand that you could contribute that would be cool Not yet but I ll provide patches as soon as I get around to work on this.one more thought after all i have the impression that the spi-logger is a utility that should be available with the spi-commons as are default implementations for spi-interfaces. i m not sure whether it would deserve it s on project.... the only problem i currently see the logger requires java 1.5. AFAIR the 1.5. dependency is not a problem as it occurs in a place which would be an implementation of a spi logger in the approach I suggested above. We could just enable disable building of this particular implementation depending on the build environment. Adding spi-commons as target of promotionFixed at revision 757775Revision 757775 introduces o.a.j.spi.commons.logging. In the most simple case   RepositoryService loggingService SpiLoggerFactory.create service creates a log wrapper for service which logs all calls to its methods if logging at the debug level is enabled. If logging is not enabled no log wrapper is created at all and service itself is returned. There is thus virtually no overhead from disabled loggers. Loggers are enabled and disabled via the configuration mechanism of the logging framework which is in place. in agreement with marcel the original contributor of the spi-logger i removed the sandbox spi spi-logger project at rev. 761589
