Avoid INFINITE RECURSION when Object Model has cycles.
The default ObjectConverterImpl is restricted to acyclic graphs in the object model. Many Java object models are NOT acyclic. For instance I am on your Friends list. Yoar are on my Friends list. Java encourages such structures. Almost any large object model in Java will have hidden cycles. Saving an Object Model that contains cycles using Graffito causes an infinite recursion. Clearly it is important to maintain a 1-to-1 correspondence between Nodes and Objects to prevent this. In the absence of Multiple Parent Nodes it will be necessary to use REFERENCE or UNDEFINED Items in place of the 2nd or greater Node representing a given Object. My preference si that the default ObjectConverterImpl should support REFERENCE. Failing this use of UNDEFINED also solves this problem and would acceptable as default . Whether or not REFERENCE is used both insertion and retrieval must provide a reasonable result. A custom ojbect converter should be available to switch UNDEFINED to REFERENCE or vice versa. Also it is probably best to keep the targeted well-defined Nodes close to the Root Node. This implies that the default ObjectConverterImpl should implement a Breadth-First rather than a Depth-First traversal of the Object Model on both insertion and retrieval. Again if the default is Depth-First a custom object converter should be available that implements Breadth-First. Admittedly support for 2 representations X 2 traversals implies a drastic refactoring and or rewriting of the ObjectConverterImpl class.The use of UNDEFINED would also affect the selection of the default or custom ProxyManager. UNDEFINED Beans and collection Items might be translated to Proxies that execute a lookup based on some Path Conversion scheme. The Path Conversions could be either stored in the Repository or provided by a custom ProxyManager. What about the auto settings auto-retrieve auto-update auto-insert . Those settings can limit graph load and updates Reference is not supported but we can also use the auto settings. Solve by using an object cache. This is not yet a complete cache system but this small cache is used per persistenceManager and only for retrieve requests. It allows to perform circular lookups as by crossreferenced objects that would result in non-terminating loops without such a cache. Later I would like to implement a complete object cache support. Something like in Hibernate or OJB. There is a good description here http db.apache.org ojb docu guides objectcache.html. I think we have similar needs but we have to define a proposal for this kind of feature with the most useful use cases.Seems that more unit tests are required. I will continue to work on itI added more unit test. It covers Bean attributes Collection attributes.
