Update site lucene-sandbox page
The page has misleading bad info. One thing I would like to do - but I won t attempt now prob good for the modules issue - is commit to one word - contrib or sandbox. I think sandbox should be purged myself. The current page says that the sandbox is kind of a rats nest with various early stage software that one day may make it into core - that info is outdated I think. We should replace it and also specify how the back compat policy works in contrib eg each contrib can have its own policy with the default being no policy. We should also drop the piece about being open to Lucene s committers and others - a bit outdated. We should also either include the other contribs or change the wording to indicate that the list is only a sampling of the many contribs. Here is a rough draft - if you have any comments or suggestions I d be happy to take them. If you originally wrote a contrib or know it well feel free to provide a better overview. I ll probably make one more pass myself at some point. I ll also include a link to the package.html for the contribs that have it analyzers Contributed Analyzers Tokenizers and Filters for various uses and languages. ant Ant task to create Lucene indexes. benchmark The benchmark contribution contains tools for benchmarking Lucene using standard freely available corpora. collation CollationKeyFilter Analyzer and ICUCollationKeyFilter Analyzer. db Provdies integration with berkely db. highlighter A set of classes for highlighting matching terms in search results. fast-vector-highlighter An alternative set of classes for highlighting matching terms in search results that relies on stored term vectors. instantiated RAM-based index that enables much faster searching than RAMDirectory in certain situations. lucli An application that allows Lucene index manipulation from the command-line. memory High-performance single-document main memory index. misc A variety of miscellaenous files including QueryParsers and other alternate Lucene class implementations and tools. queryparser A new Lucene query parser implementation which matches the syntax of the core QueryParser but offers a more modular architecture to enable customization. regex Queries with additional regex mactching capabilities. remote Classes to help use Lucene with RMI. snowball Pre-compiled versions of the Snowball stemmers for Lucene. spatial Classes to help with efficient distance based sorting. spellchecker Provides tools for spellchecking and suggestions with Lucene. surround A QueryParser that also supports the Span family of queries. swing Swing componenets designed to integrate with Lucene. wikipedia Tools for working with wikipedia content. wordnet Tools to help utilize wordnet synonyms with Lucene xml-query-parser A QueryParser that can read queries written in an XML format. first rough draft patch I m 1 on switching away from Sandbox no longer used at all to Contrib. Before you posted your patch I had written up a new intro for the contrib index.html - feel free to take any of this or ignore it p The Lucene Java project also contains a workspace Lucene Contrib formerly known as the Lucene Sandbox that is open both to all Lucene Java core committers and to developers whose commit rights are restricted to the Contrib workspace these developers are referred to as Contrib committers . The Lucene Contrib workspace hosts the following types of packages p ul li Various third party contributions. li li Contributions with third party dependencies - the Lucene Java core distribution has no external runtime dependencies. li li New ideas that are intended for eventual inclusion into the Lucene Java core. li ul p Users are free to experiment with the components developed in the Contrib workspace but Contrib packages will not necessarily be maintained particularly in their current state. The Lucene Java core backwards compatibility commitments see a href http wiki.apache.org lucene-java BackwardsCompatibility http wiki.apache.org lucene-java BackwardsCompatibility a do not necessarily extend to the packages in the Contrib workspace. See the README.txt file for each Contrib package for details. If the README.txt file does not address its backwards compatibility commitments users should assume it does not make any compatibility commitments. p I think we should add generation of Contrib-Changes.html from contrib CHANGES.txt to the changes-to-html target in build.xml exec executable perl input contrib CHANGES.txt output changes.target.dir Contrib-Changes.html failonerror true arg value changes.src.dir changes2html.pl exec and then link to it from near the top of lucene-sandbox index.xml something like p See a href http lucene.apache.org java 2 9 0 changes Contrib-Changes.html Contrib CHANGES a for changes included in the current release. p I added Steve s intro and fixed a mistake or two as well as a couple updates - also changed the page names from sandbox to contrib. Adds Steve s last contrib changes suggestion Thanks Steve 
