Calculate MD5 checksums in target
Trivial patch that extends the ant target dist-all to calculate the MD5 checksums for the dist files. FWIW ... i put something like this in the solr build.xml a while back but discovered the format ant s checksum task uses by default is really trivial and doesn t work when people use md5sum -c to try and check the sums. checksum has a format attribute now but that wasn t added until Dec2006 so I think it requires ant 1.7 the way we solved the problem was with the solr-checksum macro added to our build.xml in this commit... http svn.apache.org viewvc lucene solr trunk build.xml r1 483882 r2 484780 background... http www.nabble.com 22correct 22-format-for-the-md5-files tf2779495.html a7754724 doesn t work when people use md5sum -c to try and check the sums. True I just checked it. md5sum -c emits no properly formatted MD5 checksum lines found for the .md5 files checksum produces without the format attribute. checksum has a format attribute now but that wasn t added until Dec2006 so I think it requires ant 1.7 Yes it requires 1.7. the way we solved the problem was with the solr-checksum macro added to our build.xml in this commit... Looks good Mind me stealing the macro You can t steal the macro but it is Licensed under the ASL v2.0 and more explicitly when i wrote it and committed it to the Solr repository I Licensed it to the ASF for inclusion in ASF works as per the Apache Software License ¤5 Well yes that s what I meant. As long as code is licensed to the ASF for inclusion in ASF works it can be copied from project A to project B as long as both A and B are licensed under the same ASL right for the record in my last comment i was attempting to be facetious ... i clearly failed IANAL but i but as i understand it you are correct if not then a lot of apache projects are already in a lot of trouble. Actually my steal sentence was supposed to be facetious too I guess we have to improve our communication this is supposed to be funny too Alright I will submit a new patch shortly. OK here is the patch with the macro. And indeed md5sum -c works fine with the .md5 files. I m planning on committing this patch soon. Committed.
