move SmartChineseAnalyzer into the smartcn package
an offshoot of LUCENE-1862 org.apache.lucene.analysis.cn.SmartChineseAnalyzer should become org.apache.lucene.analysis.cn.smartcn.SmartChineseAnalyzer svn commit -m LUCENE-1882 move SmartChineseAnalyzer to the correct package ... this commit is based on a sequence of svn commands and a patch provided by Robert Muir in LUCENE-1862 ... Committed revision 810208. Robert could you please verify wether the move looks good to you hossman looks good Thanks for correcting the EOL issue also. I ve attached a trivial patch to the package.html files now that the eol issue is resolved. hossman I am curious if you have trouble with this patch to package.html now that you have corrected the EOL issue if you do have issues i can commit it if you want but I d really like to verify we can all create apply patches to smart chinese analyzer hmm scratch that I think the package.html for .smart should be similar to the old one under .cn... that explains the difference between the 3 chinese options . I will supply a new patch. this patch adds the old verbage under smartcn o.a.l.analysis.cn package.html to the smartcn o.a.l.analysis.cn.smart package.html its much better for the javadocs summary and explains the difference between the 3 options. also i added UTF-8 content-type explicitly to both smartcn package.html and smartcn hhmm package.html if you are using an ide such as eclipse the patch will not apply unless you FORCE the encoding of these files to UTF-8 before applying the patch. after we commit the patch eclipse will detect the file is UTF-8 encoding you can undo the forced encoding setting and we won t have to deal with this issue again. the following statement is a stretch but imho all .html files in lucene should declare content-type so we don t have encoding issues. I am curious if you have trouble with this patch to package.html now that you have corrected the EOL issue it might have just been the content type in the html header ... but i don t think so i think it had to do with the line endings of the patch vs the updated line endencins once i fixed the eol-style ... plus i was trying a bunch of differnt things to fix hte line endings ... i don t know what it was exactly but this new patch seems to work fine evne with the non ascii glyphs so i think we re good. Committed revision 810247. thanks robert.
