Add LuSql project to Apache Lucene - Contributions wiki page
Add LuSql to the Apache Lucene - Contributions page http lucene.apache.org java 2 9 0 contributions.html I am the author of LuSql. I can supply any text needed. Perhaps a new heading is needed to capture Database JDBC oriented Lucene tools there are others out there glen I know there is an oracle domain index implementation too so maybe a database category isn t a bad idea. do you know of any others DBSight is a commercial product that does indexing and a lot more. I was wondering if there is the need for another category Other projects frameworks that have support for or are built on Lucene internally as opposed to Lucene Tools . Examples Compass Hibernate SOLR others... In the FAQ for http wiki.apache.org lucene-java LuceneFAQ How can I use Lucene to index a database.3F indexing databases with Lucene LuSql should also be added separate JIRA issue Glen I think it would be good to bring the contributions page completely up to speed. maybe for this issue we stick with database integration though for simplicity In the FAQ for http wiki.apache.org lucene-java LuceneFAQ How can I use Lucene to index a database.3F indexing databases with Lucene LuSql should also be added separate JIRA issue I think you can just register to the wiki and edit this yourself LuSql looks great It d be wonderful to have it available under contrib. I think a contrib database would make sense In the FAQ for http wiki.apache.org lucene-java LuceneFAQ How can I use Lucene to index a database.3F indexing databases with Lucene LuSql should also be added separate JIRA issue 1 But that s the wiki Ð you can just go edit it create an account if you don t already have one and add it in no need for a JIRA issue . LuSql looks great It d be wonderful to have it available under contrib. I think a contrib database would make sense Michael actually this issue was just to add it to the contributions links on the website. But if Glen wants to incorporate it into contrib I think that would be even better... it has really nice documentation etc. Michael actually this issue was just to add it to the contributions links on the website. Right... and I think we really shouldn t try to pull more and more projects into lucene contrib making it this huge uber project - that just makes it harder and harder to change core. Michael actually this issue was just to add it to the contributions links on the website. Woops sorry my mistake Right... and I think we really shouldn t try to pull more and more projects into lucene contrib making it this huge uber project - that just makes it harder and harder to change core. I guess we can agree to disagree on this one... But I do think that this issue is just about adding hyperlinks to the website. Yes it was just concerned with adding hyperlinks to this page. I have just added LuSql to the FAQ I would prefer keeping LuSql out of contrib as it makes my life easier I think and allows me to release independent of the Lucene release schedule. patch to add a link to LuSql to the contributions page. I think the page should just be turned into a wiki page... it s woeful incomplete and out of date. Perhaps create a StuffForLucene wiki page Yonik definitely... easier than forrest and more people could keep it up to date Thanks Glen and Robert 
