Expose IndexFileNames as public and make use of its methods in the code
IndexFileNames is useful for applications that extend Lucene an in particular those who extend Directory or IndexWriter. It provides useful constants and methods to query whether a certain file is a core Lucene file or not. In addition IndexFileNames should be used by Lucene s code to generate segment file names or query whether a certain file matches a certain extension. I ll post the patch shortly. It seems to me that identifying only core index files conflicts with the idea of pluggable index formats. Presumably plugins would use their own file extensions. Would these belong to the index according to a detector based off of IndexFileNames Presumably not which would either limit the usefulness of such a utility or outright encourage anti-patterns such as a sweeper that zaps files created by plugins because they aren t core Lucene enough. Also are temporary files core Lucene Lockfiles Only sometimes What are the applications that we are trying to support by exposing this API Patch provides IFN constants and methods as public segmentFileName concatenates the name and extension w . using a StringBuilder. Using SB is a minor efficiency and since the operator on strings allocate it anyway I figure we d better allocate it directly especially when two operators are involved. matchesExtension checks whether a filename matches an extension fileNameFromGeneration adds the . when neccessary. Core code does not concatenate file . and extension on its own but uses IFN. All core tests pass. I have a local problem w contrib tests the Analyzers data dir is locked for some reason and I cannot unlock it but I see no reasons for them to fail. If this can go out in 3.0.2 instead of waiting for 3.1 then all the better. What are the applications that we are trying to support by exposing this API Any application that extends IW or provide its own Directory implementation and wants to reference Lucene s file extensions properly i.e. not by putting its code under o.a.l.index or hardcoding .del as its deletions file will benefit from making it public. The class already exists and declares the right constants and methods. All I want is to expose it as public. This information is not hidden it s out there. We re just making it easier for apps to reference it. Like Mike mentioned on the java-dev thread http old.nabble.com IndexFileNames-td27699103.html he exposes it or a variant on the flex branch as public because classes outside the index package need to reference it. Indeed once Flex is out that file will need to change or extend to accommodate pluggable index formats files but that s not the matter of this issue. This issue is just about exposing an already existing class as public instead of package-private for convenience ... Forgot to tag IFN as lucene.internal Any application that extends IW or provide its own Directory implementation and wants to reference Lucene s file extensions properly i.e. not by putting its code under o.a.l.index or hardcoding .del as its deletions file will benefit from making it public. Forgot to tag IFN as lucene.internal If the class is tagged as internal then external applications like the one you describe above aren t supposed to use it right But I don t really care about whether this goes into Lucene. Go ahead make it fully public and omit the internal tag. Not my problem. The thing is I really don t understand what kind of thing you want to do. Are you writing your own deletions files I m trying to understand because the only use cases I can think of for this aren t compatible with index pluggability which is a high priority for Lucy. Sweep non-core-Lucene files to clean up an index. Gather up core-Lucene files for export. Audit core-Lucene files to determine whether the index is in a valid state. Differentiate between core-Lucene and non-core-Lucene files when writing a compound file. Maybe there s something I haven t thought of though. Why do you want to reference Lucene s file extensions properly Once you ve identified identified which files are core Lucene and which files aren t what are you going to do with them The thing is I really don t understand what kind of thing you want to do. Consider a variation of FileSwitchDirectory which someone wants to write. Extensions xyz abc go do directory 1 and def got do directory 2. That someone will want to reference Lucene extensions in order to achieve that. FSD only takes care of extensions but someone might need to work on prefixes of files as well. You can say that class itself should not care about Lucene s extensions it should get the extensions prefixes in a ctor ... Well ... let s take FileSwitchDirectory which is a core Lucene class and say I want to instantiate it. I need to pass file extensions. How do I pass the .del file as an extension Do I hard code it to .del or just del or or do I put that code in o.a.l.store just for that Or ... we make IndexFileNames publc and I can happily and safely reference it. BTW I m writing this from a computer w o the Lucene code Ð I wonder how FSD is tested is the test in o.a.l.index because it references IFN or in o.a.l.store because it tests FSD If it s the former then I usually think it points at a problem in the design. The lucene.internal tag gives us exactly that freedom. Instead of me putting code in o.a.l. and feel like I m dong something wrong and make my code look wrong I can put it in my package but know I m risking the chance a certain constant or method impl will change in the future. I ve already took that risk when I chose to put my code in o.a.l. so I prefer to take that risk and not make my code look patchy. I personally don t mind what Lucene s back-compat policy is. Whenever I upgrade my code to a new Lucene version I re-compile anything. I am happy to get rid of deprecated API I am happy to take advantage of new more efficient API and I wouldn t care if a lucene.internal class changed as long as it s documented in the Changes in back-compat section in CHANGES as a FYI - not because it s a change in the policy so I can read about it quickly that s the first section I usually check . That class is just a reference to Lucene s core files. If you want to write that Sweep thing you might benefit from knowing what is a core Lucene file and delegate the sweep task to a core Lucene instance while sweeping the rest of the files by another instance which created them . If Lucene core will create files w other names extensions then I believe this class IFN should be changed entirely but I don t think making it public blocks any of these changes as long as it s tagged by lucene.internal. Updated TestFileSwitchDirectory to use the constants instead of hard coding fdt and fdx . It couldn t have done that because IFN was package-private which shows the problem with it. Patch looks good Shai But I don t think we should back port to 3.0.2 Ð it s non-trivial enough that there is some risk As the API is now marked lucene.internal and it ll only be very expert usage I m not as concerned as Marvin is about the risks of even exposing this. Also even with flex a good number of Lucene s index files are not under codec control codec only touches postings files Ð .tis .tii .frq .prx for the standard codec . But I do agree it s not ideal that the knowledge of file extensions is split across this class and the codec. The IndexFileNameFilter in flex now takes a Codec as input to make up for that... but IndexFileNames just has a NOTE at the top stating the limitation. But I don t think we should back port to 3.0.2 Ok I can live w 3.1 as long as it s not released at the end of 2010. I can for now put that part of my code in o.a.l.index until 3.1 is out. As I wrote in the TestFileSwitchDirectory comment this IMO has to go in because otherwise it would make the code of users of FSD fragile potentially . Thanks for looking at this But I don t think we should back port to 3.0.2 - it s non-trivial enough that there is some risk Please no backport to 3.0.2 its an API change. And we are not sure if there will be ever a 3.0.2. BTW Version 3.0.1 comes out latest on Friday will appear on the mirrors soon As the API is now marked lucene.internal and it ll only be very expert usage I m not as concerned as Marvin is about the risks of even exposing this. Um the only possible concerns I could have had were regarding public exposure of this API. If it s marked as internal it s an implementation detail. Whether or not the dot is included in internal-use-only constant strings isn t something I m going to waste a lot of time thinking about. So now not only do I really really not care whether this goes in I have no qualms about it either. Having users like Shai who are willing to recompile and regenerate to take advantage of experimental features is a big boon as it allows us to test drive features before declaring them stable. Designing optimal APIs without usability testing is difficult to impossible. Thanks Shai 
