Arabic Analyzer Stopwords list needs enhancement
The provided Arabic stopwords list needs some enhancements e.g. it contains a lot of words that not stopwords and some cleanup . patch will be provided with this issue. Please see the arabic-stopwords-comments.txt to see my comments on the list and why what did I change. The patch provides an updated Arabic stopwords file and modifies ArabicAnalyzer to filter stopwords after the normalization as the provided list is a normalized Arabic stop words. Best Basem thanks for the patch and the comments. One thing I noticed if I apply the patch the stopword will not be filtered as a stopword. This is because it will be normalized to the name . So if we are going to normalize before stopfilter I think we need to make sure the stopwords do not contain yeh without dots or else these will not work. This is one example of why I was scared to apply normalization before stopwords because by doing so we cause and to conflate. Let me know what you think about this. Robert you are correct to solve the problem we have two options 1- to remove words like and 2- to use unnormalized stiowirds list before the normalization filter. I think the best is the second option so this patch only modifies the list unnormalized please try it. Basem thanks. I like the new list. I have one very minor question in the list we have twice. I wanted to check with you is this by accident or did you have some other spellings in mind If it is by accident let me know I can just remove the duplicates before committing. Hi Robert Regarding ... No not by accident I included both formats normalized unnormalized . Arabic users tend to use both on the internet different spellings another example is words like Basem I meant there are two entries for and two entries for total of four edit here are the relevant line numbers from the new stopwords.txt Lines 72 and 73 Lines 123 and 124 Basem I can simply remove 123 124 if this is the case but I did not want to do this without checking first. The reason is I wonder if perhaps you intended for these two to be and with fathatan Oh my mistake sorry yes please remove the last two on 123 124. no they are just duplicate of the ones on line 72 73 Basem ok Thanks a lot for your help here. I will commit soon. before I commit this I want to solicit any comments concerns about backwards compat assuming the following notice Changes in runtime behavior LUCENE-1966 Modified and cleaned the default Arabic stopwords list used by ArabicAnalyzer. You ll need to fully re-index any previously created indexes. Basem Narmok via Robert Muir i know contrib has no bw compat guarantee but just want to double-check. Perhaps in the future someone might help fix the Persian stopwords file also so this may happen again Seems good. BTW with FAST ESP we never used stopwords as hits from stopwords get low relevancy keywords with high number of hits low value low importance so less relevant so such hits will never get into the top results. Also using stopwords will affect phrase search most of the search engines avoid removing them. But at the end it depends on the client s application and what she really wants as enterprise search could have very specific and different needs than Internet search. Anyways still I am testing the Arabic Analyzer and I will provide you with more comments soon. but for the stopwords they are good for now Basem yes I think the improvements are good. My question is really is it OK to commit this for 3.0 or should we wait for 3.1 Committed revision 825110. Thanks Basem 
