New Token filter for adding payloads in-stream 
This TokenFilter is able to split a token based on a delimiter and use one part as the token and the other part as a payload. This allows someone to include payloads inline with tokens presumably setup by a pipeline ahead of time . An example is apropos. Given a delimiter we could have a stream that looks like The quick JJ red JJ fox NN jumped VB over the lazy JJ brown JJ dogs NN In this case this would produce tokens and payloads assuming whitespace tokenization Token the Payload null Token quick Payload JJ Token red Pay JJ. and so on. This patch will also support pluggable encoders for the payloads so it can convert from the character array to byte arrays as appropriate. Here s a first draft of this. See the test case for an example. Shouldn t the CHANGES entry in this patch go into contrib CHANGES That has been minorly inconsistent in the past. I have seen an occasion or two where contrib changes have made core changes. I think its inconsistent and we should keep those changes in their respective changes.txt or make one for them but it has happened. Shouldn t the CHANGES entry in this patch go into contrib CHANGES It can I ve never quite been sure. I think more people read the top-level CHANGES thus it is more likely to be noticed but I m fine either way. Yeah we have not been consistent about it in the past... it s very much a chicken egg thing though. If we consistently use contrib s CHANGES then presumably it d get more visibility. But I really don t feel strongly one way or another... I think we should decide on one way or another though. Information gets lost and scattered arbitrarily otherwise. The position sensitive hit highlighting patch spanscorer didnt make any changes file. I don t feel its a real big deal either but I favor consistency over scattered and somewhat arbitrary. I agree we should decide. I would lean towards always using contrib CHANGES. And then we should double-check all core CHANGES entries in 2.9 and move them to contrib if needed. OK I moved to contrib CHANGES. I m going to commit this today. BTW I m curious if people have a better way to convert from char to byte for encoding the payloads see FloatEncoder other than going through Strings. I grabbed Apache Harmony s Integer.parseInt code and converted it to take in a char array which should speed up the IntegerEncoder. However the Float.parseInt implementation relies on some constructs that are not available in JDK 1.4 so that one is going to have to stay as it is. The main problem lies in the reliance on the HexStringParser https svn.apache.org repos asf harmony enhanced classlib archive java6 modules luni src main java org apache harmony luni util HexStringParser.java which is in need of some Long specific attributes that are either JDK1.4 or are Harmony specific attributes of Long I didn t take the time to investigate At any rate I added the Integer stuff to ArrayUtils and also added some tests. For reference see https svn.apache.org repos asf harmony enhanced classlib archive java6 modules luni src main java org apache harmony luni util FloatingPointParser.java https svn.apache.org repos asf harmony enhanced classlib archive java6 modules luni src main java java lang Integer.java Committed revision 784297.
