Core Test should not have dependencies on the Demo code
The TestDoc.java Test file has a dependency on the Demo FileDocument code. Some of us don t keep the Demo code around after downloading so this breaks the build. Patch will be along shortly Attached is a new file FileDocument that lives under the Test structure and changes to the appropriate Tests TestDoc and IndexTest that use this class. Why should we replicate this file in the t est tree I don t see the need to make unit tests independent of the demo code. Why do you remove the demo code I am not happy with the replication thing but if you can t build something in the main source tree without having the demo code then that just doesn t feel right. What happens when someone changes the demo Now we have to keep this demo code exactly the same lest we also want to update the dependencies in the main source as well. I suppose it isn t a big deal since it is only one file but it just seems like an unnecessary dependency. Ideally the FileDocument would live in some common place but I am not sure where that would be. I don t include the demo source under my source tree in intellij so it always complains at me I hate those red squiggly marks but I suppose I can get over it for this one file. I concur with Grant on this - the dependency from test to demo has caused me annoyance as well. I m in favor of a fix to it but haven t looked at Grant s solution yet. Grant the test code is not in the main source tree it s in the test source tree which depends on core and demo . I still don t see what harm that dependency causes aesthetically or otherwise. Perhaps such dependencies are awkward in intellij Is that the issue Doug The intellij thing is just a symptom. I think the bigger issues are the consequences of the demo being changed and that it just doesn t feel right. In my mind the Test code is for testing the core not the demo. The demo in my mind is a sample application using the core and has nothing to do with testing the core. To me the demo feels more akin to the contrib area then the core area and I think you would agree that the core tests should not be depend on anything in contrib right At any rate I am not trying to create an aesthetics war here so at this point I will leave it to the committers to decide. The more stuff that s regularly compiled tested the better. We don t want the demo or contrib code to become neglected. Removing dependencies from the core is important. But I don t see that as a priority for test code. My primary objection to making tests dependent on contrib would be that it might substantially slow the compile test loop to the degree that folks would run tests less frequently. The demo is small enough that I don t think this is a concern. The more stuff that s regularly compiled tested the better. Couldn t agree more. We don t want the demo or contrib code to become neglected. Removing dependencies from the core is important. But I don t see that as a priority for test code. Hence me giving this bug a priority of Minor I still think we should remove the dependency that test has on demo. Looking into the code you can replace the call of FileDocument in TestDoc with just 2 lines Document doc new Document doc.add new Field contents new FileReader file With this change alone we could remove the dependency. I think we should do that because it makes the build cleaner and I don t think we ll pay less attention to the demo code in the future just because we remove this classpath dependency. Any objections Otherwise I ll reopen this issue and attach a patch. 1 Will have to commit the change in TestDoc also to the compatibility tests branch. Committed revision 822139.
