Remove remaining author references
 find . -name .java xargs grep author cut -d -f1 xargs perl -pi -e s author. The patch of 20080907 has some commented code added in SweetSpotSimilarityTest probably unwanted. Also author lines are replaced by emty comment lines perhaps it s better remove these lines completely. I didn t see any place where that could go wrong by changing the perl substitute command to do so and the compiler would find such possible comment errors anyway. Otis can you finish commit this Eh rusty perl find . -name .java xargs grep author cut -d -f1 xargs perl -pi -e s author. Doesn t work Ð that in front of author doesn t cut it. Here is a clean patch off trunk if you want to avoid the perl have a hard time remember my perl myself . Ah...thought that patch was older perl was no blocker g Take the second anyway it removes the 36 empty blocks see below created and was done with java g Thanks Mark. Committed revision 695514. Under nix this command find src -name .html xargs grep Author still shows some html author tags. 1378b.patch removes html author tags. Just try and imagine a life without grep. The 1378c.patch removes my name. Reopened so fix 2.9 instead of 2.4. Or should I rather open a new issue Done. Thank you Paul. Sending src java org apache lucene analysis package.html Sending src java org apache lucene analysis standard package.html Sending src java org apache lucene index package.html Sending src java org apache lucene queryParser package.html Sending src java org apache lucene search package.html Sending src java org apache lucene store package.html Sending src java org apache lucene util package.html Sending src test org apache lucene search TestBooleanOr.java Transmitting file data ........ Committed revision 781055. I thought I had caught them all but under unix in the trunk dir grep -r -i author src grep -v .svn wc still gives some lines mentioning authors in the src site and src jsp directories. I don t know whether that s ok. There is also some code in src test using a query with an author field but that s no problem. I think a bunch of that xdocs stuff under site should will really be removed with time as some of it is out of date e.g. benchmarks contrib and harder to maintain than Wiki pages.
