Move SmartChineseAnalyzer resources to own contrib project
SmartChineseAnalyzer depends on a large dictionary that causes the analyzer jar to grow up to 3MB. The dictionary is quite big compared to all the other resouces class files contained in that jar. Having a separate analyzer-cn contrib project enables footprint-sensitive users e.g. using lucene on a mobile phone to include analyzer.jar without getting into trouble with disk space. Moving SmartChineseAnalyzer to a separate project could also include a small refactoring as Robert mentioned in LUCENE-1722 several classes should be package protected members and classes could be final commented syserr and logging code should be removed etc. I set this issue target to 2.9 - if we can not make it until then feel free to move it to 3.0 Simon what do you think about name for the new folder I am concerned users will be confused between analyzers cjk analyzers cn and analyzer-cn all of which are different. Should we name the new package analyzer-cnhmm or something to help clarify it I intend to also add a little wordage to the javadocs to help disambiguate this whatever we decide to name it. thanks I am concerned users will be confused between analyzers cjk analyzers cn and analyzer-cn all of which are different. Should we name the new package analyzer-cnhmm or something to help clarify it The name analyzer-cn was just an example though but I don t like analyzer-cnhmm. Whats about analyzer-smartcn Definitly 1 for a less ambigious name. I intend to also add a little wordage to the javadocs to help disambiguate this whatever we decide to name it. 1 Simon analyzer-smartcn works and its consistent with the name of the analyzer. If i svn move the files in my local and submit a patch will it ensure that history is preserved I am not an svn expert. If i svn move the files in my local and submit a patch will it ensure that history is preserved I am not an svn expert. No. an svn copy or svn move will not be reflected in a patch. If you svn move A B and create a patch from your local WC the history of A will be lost. I guess I should do the moveing and commit it the refactoring should be done afterwards. Would that make sense to you simon simon i think i ve almost got it ready. i ve got a set of svn move s etc you can run first then a patch to apply over it. this way also the patch only reflects the real changes and you can review what these are before changing anything in SVN... i ll upload it soon... After creating the new contrib do not forget to add the javadocs generation of the all subdir in the main build.xml Also new contribs should be added to the developers part in the site docs and so on. I can do that if you like after committing the whole thing I have done it several times the last months for spatial trie ... . Another idea We can do it without creating a new contrib instead do it like the contrib-bdb which consists of 2 sub-contribs. Here the contrib folder of bdb is divided into two sub-folders the build.xml of the main folder is just a delegator or how you would call it and delegates the ant targets to the build.xmls in the sub-folders. Using this approach we would still have only one contrib-analyzers main folder with two subdirs which are two separate contribs modules like the two bdb ones but are in one folder. This approach is only good for source code the user still gets the jar files in the main build folder directly under contrib. So I am not sure if this is really better than two really separate contribs. After creating the new contrib do not forget to add the javadocs generation of the all subdir in the main build.xml Also new contribs should be added to the developers part in the site docs and so on. I can do that if you like after committing the whole thing I have done it several times the last months for spatial trie ... . Uwe I will not be able to commit those changes I guess. This reminds me that contrib commiters should have access to those files too. Once I get this change in I will notify you with a patch so you can get it in. This approach is only good for source code the user still gets the jar files in the main build folder directly under contrib. So I am not sure if this is really better than two really separate contribs. I really like this approach as it keeps the code logically consistent. I think we should go for this approach that makes much more sense to me. I really like this approach as it keeps the code logically consistent. I think we should go for this approach that makes much more sense to me. Simon are you referring to Uwe s approach of splitting the analyzers contrib into two or your previous approach of analyzer-smartcn contrib Simon are you referring to Uwe s approach of splitting the analyzers contrib into two or your previous approach of analyzer-smartcn contrib I refer to Uwe s approach. great I like this too. any preference on names contrib analyzers analyzers and contrib analyzers smartcn once we figure that out i can create updated set of svn moves patch for this approach contrib analyzers analyzers and contrib analyzers smartcn 1 go ahead Simon below is the method I used to do the refactoring with this patch. I know I am pressing the limits of what is a refactoring but in my opinion this minor cleanup was necessary to prevent internal structures from being exposed Use of two Tokenizers in the same analyzer was confusing WordTokenizer is now a TokenFilter. Analyzer uses the standard WordListLoader rather than custom stuff. Rather than force SmartChineseAnalyzer to keep track of internal heavyweight structures it implements reusableTokenStream etc. I added a few tests to ensure I didn t break anything in the SmartChineseAnalyzer. 1. clean svn checkout 2. run the following commands to refactor the files. mkdir -p contrib analysis smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn contrib analysis smartcn src test org apache lucene analysis cn contrib analysis smartcn src resources org apache lucene analysis cn svn add contrib analysis svn move contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn SmartChineseAnalyzer.java contrib analysis smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart hhmm contrib analysis smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart .java contrib analysis smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn svn delete contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart svn move contrib analyzers src test org apache lucene analysis cn TestSmartChineseAnalyzer.java contrib analysis smartcn src test org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src resources org apache lucene analysis cn stopwords.txt contrib analysis smartcn src resources org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src resources org apache lucene analysis cn smart hhmm contrib analysis smartcn src resources org apache lucene analysis cn svn delete contrib analyzers src resources org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analysis smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn WordTokenizer.java contrib analysis smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn WordTokenFilter.java svn move contrib analyzers contrib analysis 3. eclipse refresh at project level. 4. set text-file encoding at project level to UTF-8 5. manually force text-file encoding as UTF-8 for contrib analysis analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn package.html this is an existing encoding issue that is corrected by this patch. 6. apply patch from clipboard you may now remove the above hack and you will notice this file is now detected properly as UTF-8 Robert thanks for all that I just had a brief look at it but looks good so far. I need to look over it again in the next days. Plan to commit it this week. simon Robert I don t think we should rename the directory analyzers to analysis I would rather go for analyzers common and analyzers smartcn or a similar scheme. simon Simon sounds good. I will update the patch svn commands with that scheme hopefully in the next day or 2 cool thanks Simon I revised the patch. Here are the new instructions for the analyzers common and analyzers smartcn scheme. Sorry for the delay. 1. clean svn checkout 2. run the following commands to refactor the files. mkdir contrib analyzers common mkdir -p contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn contrib analyzers smartcn src test org apache lucene analysis cn contrib analyzers smartcn src resources org apache lucene analysis cn svn add contrib analyzers smartcn contrib analyzers common svn move contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn SmartChineseAnalyzer.java contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart hhmm contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart .java contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn svn delete contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart svn move contrib analyzers src test org apache lucene analysis cn TestSmartChineseAnalyzer.java contrib analyzers smartcn src test org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src resources org apache lucene analysis cn stopwords.txt contrib analyzers smartcn src resources org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src resources org apache lucene analysis cn smart hhmm contrib analyzers smartcn src resources org apache lucene analysis cn svn delete contrib analyzers src resources org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn WordTokenizer.java contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn WordTokenFilter.java svn move contrib analyzers build.xml contrib analyzers common svn move contrib analyzers pom.xml.template contrib analyzers common svn move contrib analyzers src contrib analyzers common 3. eclipse refresh at project level. 4. set text-file encoding at project level to UTF-8 5. manually force text-file encoding as UTF-8 for contrib analyzers common src java org apache lucene analysis cn package.html this is an existing encoding issue that is corrected by this patch. 6. apply patch from clipboard you may now remove the above hack and you will notice this file is now detected properly as UTF-8 same patch but this time i clicked ASF license... sorry Robert I have looked at this patch and more important at the source itself and I get more and more the impression that we have to do more work on this analyzer and the related classes as just moving them into one package and make everything package private. From my understanding the Hidden Markov Model Segmenter is a feature which could be replaced by some other algorithm. Once you have such a feature relationship I would prefer packages by feature which enables you to remove a single feature just by removing a whole package. In other words I would love to see a general refactoring of the code which exploits a tiny but common API in the base package and is subsequently used by the HHMM feature . There is quite a bit of work to do that I do not consider 2.9 work. So here is the question do we keep the structure as it is and just move it to a new subdir to build a sep. jar or do we move them into one single package as you did in the patch and build up a clean HHMM package later in 3. . Beside the packaging I found heaps of things I do not like very much in the code not your patch an my fingertips getting nervous when I see stuff like the AbstractDictionary hierarchy or those Singletions. I would really like to have this separation of CN and common Analyzers in for 2.9 Ð we just need to decide which way we go. I guess moving it over without changing code would be easiest. simon Simon I agree with you there is a ton of work to be done. I also did not particularly like my method of moving everything into one package to hide the internals... and I 100 agree that a correct refactoring is quite a bit of work. I don t want to sound like a complainer since I don t have a patch to fix these things but I want to list some things that I would like to fix refactor also. removal of GB2312 dictionary dependency this limits functionality to simplified chinese. use of unicode categories java Character class etc versus Utility.getCharType support for codepoints outside of BMP this is necessary to support traditional chinese. a little more flexibility with tokenization honestly I m really not sold on indexing words for chinese in the first place. But words bigrams overlapping tokens that would be nice. In the future it would be nice to add support for traditional chinese and there is frequency data out there libtabe BSD license etc but we need to refactor first. As far as what to do for 2.9... I really don t know either just let me know if you need a new patch I don t want to sound like a complainer since I don t have a patch to fix these things but I want to list some things that I would like to fix refactor also. pushing things forward is not complaining to me. I agree with you points I did not look closely into implementation details but rather on structural things. Apparently we both agree that we have work to do on this and I guess we can work out good solutions in the future together. Let s just move the classes into it s own subdir as you already did and keep the structure as it is with the smallest changes - some classes have to be moved . If you could provide a patch I will commit the refactoring and we open a new issue for 3. . This solution seems to be ideal as 2.9 release is quite close... simon Simon OK I will work on a patch that tries to maintain the package structure. Other than package structure is there anything in the patch you are uncomfortable with I can either try to unfix any small fixes you don t like or create more testcases whatever makes sense. Other than package structure is there anything in the patch you are uncomfortable with no that I could tell. You can keep whatever applies to the package structure - means we might have to keep some classes public etc. thanks for your patience Good job simon Simon yes some things may have to be public that should not be due to the package structure. I ll see if I can improve the javadocs for anything that falls in this situation as a short-term workaround. So we are going to move everything currently under contrib analyzers to contrib analyzers common yeah except smart chinese analyzer. I am testing the latest patch that keeps the previous smart chinese analyzer package structure regenerating docs etc etc. I will upload it in a few when I think it is good to go. Simon here is the new patch. It also has the changes to build.xml and site.xml so that javadocs are correctly linked and the regenerated docs. 1. clean svn checkout 2. run the following commands to refactor the files. mkdir contrib analyzers common mkdir -p contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn contrib analyzers smartcn src test org apache lucene analysis cn contrib analyzers smartcn src resources org apache lucene analysis svn add contrib analyzers smartcn contrib analyzers common svn move contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn SmartChineseAnalyzer.java contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src test org apache lucene analysis cn TestSmartChineseAnalyzer.java contrib analyzers smartcn src test org apache lucene analysis cn svn move contrib analyzers src resources org apache lucene analysis cn contrib analyzers smartcn src resources org apache lucene analysis svn copy contrib analyzers build.xml contrib analyzers common svn move contrib analyzers pom.xml.template contrib analyzers common svn move contrib analyzers src contrib analyzers common svn move contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart WordTokenizer.java contrib analyzers smartcn src java org apache lucene analysis cn smart WordTokenFilter.java 3. eclipse refresh at project level. 4. set text-file encoding at project level to UTF-8 5. manually force text-file encoding as UTF-8 for contrib analyzers common src java org apache lucene analysis cn package.html also manually force text-file encoding as UTF-8 for contrib analyzers common src java org apache lucene analysis cjk package.html this is an existing encoding issue that is corrected by this patch. 6. apply patch from clipboard you may now remove the above hack and you will notice the above files are now detected properly as UTF-8 Robert I just committed your patch. Thanks a lot for that. I added equals and hashcode methods to the classes you removed them just in case. Uwe or some other core commiter could you please prepare the documentation and top level build.xml and commit it thanks I think robert already prepared everything in his patch. Simon thanks oh the equals and hashcode were commented out in the original src I removed the commented lines . I was afraid to uncomment them I didnt know why they were commented out but I shouldn t have deleted the commented lines... thanks for resolving this. I ll commit the top-level changes for the web-site. Thanks Robert I ll commit the top-level changes for the web-site. Thanks Robert thanks mike I committed a fix for the incorrect javadocs dirs for contrib analysis in the main build.xml. Revision 797213
